ete 
apistians 


MILLS COLLEGE 
LIBRARY 


Magnificent 
Obsession 


Lioyp C. Doueuas 


Magnificent 
Obsession 


by, 4 & | 
56 
Lioyp C* Douc.Las 


Js 
XN 
MD Ki 


WILLETT, CLARK @7:COMPANY 
Cui1caco:440SouTH DEARBORNSTREET 
New Yorn :200 FirtH AVENUE 


Magnificent 
Obsession 


I 


a HAD LATELY BECOME COMMON CHATTER AT BRIGHTWOOD 
Hospital — better known for three hundred miles around 
Detroit as Hudson’s Clinic — that the chief was all but 
dead on his feet. The whole place buzzed with it. 

All the way from the inquisitive solarium on the top floor 
to the garrulous kitchen in the basement, little groups — 
convalescents in wheeled chairs, nurses with tardy trays, 
lean internes on rubber soles, grizzled orderlies trailing 
damp mops— met to whisper and separated to dissemi- 
nate the bad news. Doctor Hudson was on the verge of a 
collapse. 

On the verge? . . . Indeed! One lengthening story had 
it that on Tuesday he had fainted during an operation — 
mighty ticklish piece of business, too — which young Watson, 
assisting him, was obliged to complete alone. And the worst 
of it was that he was back at it again, next morning, carry- 
ing on as usual. 

An idle tale like that, no matter with what solicitude of 
loyalty it might be discussed at Brightwood, would deal the 
institution a staggering wallop once it seeped through the 
big wrought-iron gates. And the rumor was peculiarly diffi- 
cult to throttle because, unfortunately, it was true. 

Obviously the hour had arrived for desperate measures. 

Dr. Malcolm Pyle, shaggy and beetle browed, next to 
the chief in seniority, a specialist in abdominal surgery and 
admiringly spoken of by his colleagues as the best belly man 
west of the Alleghenies, growled briefly into the ear of blood- 
and-skin Jennings, a cynical, middle-aged bachelor, who but 


for his skill as a bacteriologist would have been dropped 
I 


2 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


from the staff, many a time, for his rasping banter and in- 
furiating impudences. 

Jennings quickly passed the word to internal-medicine 
Carter, who presently met eye-ear-nose-and-throat McDer- 
mott in the hall and relayed the message. 

“ Oh, yes, P’ll come,” said McDermott uneasily, “ but I 
don’t relish the idea of a staff meeting without the chief. 
Looks like treason.” 

“It’s for his own good,” explained Carter. 

“Doubtless; but . . . he has always been such a straight 
shooter, himself.” 

* You tell Aldrich and Watson. I’llsee Gram and Harper. 
I hate it as much as you do, Mac, but we can’t let the chief 
ruin himself.” 


o SD 


Seeing that tomorrow was Christmas, and this was Satur- 
day well past the luncheon hour, by the time Pyle had 
tardily joined them in the superintendent’s office each of 
the eight, having abandoned whatever manifestation of 
dignified omniscience constituted his bedside manner, was 
snappishly impatient to have done with this unpleasant 
business and be off. 

When at length he breezed in, not very convincingly 
attempting the conciliatory smirk of the belated, Pyle found 
them glum and fidgety — Carter savagely reducing to shav- 
ings what remained of a pencil, Aldrich rattling the pages 
of his engagement book, McDermott meticulously pecking 
at diminutive bits of lint on his coat sleeve, Watson ostenta- 
tiously shaking his watch at his ear, Gram drumming an 
exasperating tattoo on Nancy Ashford’s desk, and the others 
pacing about like hungry panthers. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 3 


* Well,” said Pyle, seating them with a sweeping gesture, 
* you all know what we’re here for.” 

“ Ab-so-lute-ly,” drawled Jennings. “‘ The old boy must 
be warned.” 

** At once!” snapped Gram. 

“Tl say! > muttered McDermott. 

“And you, Pyle, are the proper person to do it!” An- 
ticipating a tempestuous rejoinder, Jennings hastened to 
defend himself against the impending din by noisily pound- 
ing out his pipe on the rim of Mrs. Ashford’s steel waste 
basket, a performance she watched with sour interest. 

“Where do you get that ‘old boy’ stuff, Jennings? ” 
demanded Pyle, projecting a fierce, myopic glare at his 
pestiferous crony. “‘ He’s not much older than you are.” 

Watson tilted his chair back on its hind legs, cautiously 
turned his red head in the direction of Carter, seated 
next him, and slowly closed one eye. This was going to be 
good. 

“Doctor Hudson was forty-six last May,” quietly volun- 
teered the superintendent, without looking up. 

“You ought to know,” conceded Jennings drily. 

She met his rough insinuation with level, unacknowledging 
eyes. 

“ May twenty-fifth,” she added. 

“Thanks so much. That point’s settled, then. But, all 
the same, he wasn’t a day under a hundred and forty-six 
when he slumped out of his operating room, this morning, 
haggard and shaky.” 

“It’s getting spread about too,” complained Carter. 

“Take it up with him, Doctor Pyle,” wheedled McDer- 
mott. “Tell him we all think he needs a vacation —a 
long one! ” 


4. MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


Pyle snorted contemptuously and aimed a bushy eye- 
brow at him. 

*Humph! That’s good! ‘Tell him we all think,’ eh? 
It’s a mighty careless, offhand damn that Hudson would 
give for what we all think! Did youever . . .” He pointed 
a bony finger at the perspiring McDermott, “‘. . . did you 
ever feel moved to offer a few comradely suggestions to 
Dr. Wayne Hudson, relative to the better management of 
his personal affairs? ”’ 

McDermott rosily hadn’t, and Pyle’s dry voice crackled 
again. 

* As I thought! That explains how, with so little display 
of emotion, you can advise somebody else to do it. You see, 
my son,” —he dropped his tone of raillery and became 
sincere — “ we’re dealing here with an odd number. No- 
body quite like him in the whole world . . . full of funny 
crotchets. In a psychiatric clinic — which this hospital is 
going to be, shortly, with the entire staff in strait-jackets — 
some of Hudson’s charming little idiosyncrasies would be 
brutally referred to as clean-cut psychoses! ” 

The silence in Mrs. Ashford’s office was tense. Pyle’s 
regard for the chief was known to be but little short of 
idolatry. What, indeed, was he preparing to say? Did he 
actually believe that Hudson was off the rails? 

““ Now, don’t misunderstand! ’”? he went on quickly, sens- 
ing their amazement. ‘‘ Hudson’s entitled to all his whim- 
sies. So far as I’m concerned, he has earned the right to his 
flock of phantoms. He is a genius, and whosoever loveth a 
genius is out of luck with his devotion except he beareth all 
things, endureth all things, suffereth long and is kind.” 

** Not like sounding brass,” interpolated Jennings piously. 

** Apropos of brass,” growled Pyle, “‘ but — no matter. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 5 


. . . We all know that the chief is the most important figure 
in the field of brain surgery on this continent. But he did 
not come to that distinction by accident. He has toiled like 
aslaveina mill. His specialty is guaranteed to make a man | 
moody; counts himself lucky if he can hold down his mor- 
tality to fifty per cent. What kind of a mentality would you 
have ” — shifting his attention to Jennings, who grinned, 
amiably — “if you lost half your cases? They’d soon have 
you trussed in a big tub of hot water, feeding you through 
the nose with a syringe! ” 

“You spoke of the chief’s psychoses,’ interrupted Mc- 
Dermott, approaching the dangerous word hesitatingly. 
** Do you mean that — literally? ” 

Pyle pursed his lips and nodded slowly. 

“Yes — literally! One of his notions — by far the most 
alarming of his legion, in so far as the present dilemma is 
affected — has to do with his curious attitude toward fear. 
He mustn’t be afraid of anything. He must live above 
fear — that is his phrase. You would think, to hear his 
prattle, that he was a wealthy and neurotic old lady trying 
to graduate from Theosophy into Bahaism. . . .” 

“What’s Bahaism? ” inquired Jennings, with pretended 
naiveté. 

** Hudson believes,” continued Pyle, disdainful of the 
annoyance, “that if a man harbors any sort of fear, no 
matter how benign and apparently harmless, it percolates 
through all his thinking, damages his personality, makes 
him landlord to a ghost. For years, he has been so con- 
sistently living above fear — fear of slumping, fear of the 
natural penalties of overwork, fear of the neural drain of 
insomnia. . . . Haven’t you heard him discoursing on the 
delights of reading in bed to three o’clock? .. . fear of 


6 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


that little aneurism he knows he’s got — that he has driven 
himself at full gallop with spurs on his boots and burrs 
under his saddle, caroling about his freedom, until he’s 
ready to drop. But whoever cautions him will be warmly 
damned for his impertinence.”’ 

Pyle had temporarily run down, and discussion became 
general. Carter risked suggesting that if the necessary in- 
terview with the chief required a gift for impertinence, why 
not deputize Jennings? Aldrich said it was no time for kid- 
ding. McDermott again nominated Pyle. Gram shouted, 
** Ofcourse! ” They pushed back their chairs. Pyle brought 
both big hands down on his knees with a resounding slap, 
rose with a groan, and sourly promised he’d have a go at it. 

“* Attaboy! ” commended Jennings paternally. ‘‘ Watson 
will do your stitches, afterwards. He has been getting some 
uncommonly nice cosmetic values, lately, with his scars; 
eh, Watty? ” 

The disorder incident to adjournment spared Watson the 
chagrin of listening to the threatened report of Jennings 
eavesdropping, an hour earlier, on the dulcet cooing of < 
recently discharged patient, back to tender her gratitude 
Emboldened by his rescue, he dispassionately told Jenning 
to go to hell, much to the latter’s faunlike satisfaction, an 
the staff evaporated. 

** Let’s go and eat,” said Pyle. 

As they turned the corner in the corridor, Jenning® 
slipped his hand under Pyle’s elbow and muttered, ‘“‘ You 
know damned well what ails the chief, and sodolI. It’s 
the girl! ” 

** Joyce, you mean? ” 

** Who else? ” Jennings buttoned his overcoat collar hig 
about his throat and thrust his shoulder against the big fror 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 7 


oor and an eighty-mile gale. ‘“‘ Certainly, I mean Joyce. 
he’s running wild, and he’s worrying his heart out and his 
ead off! ” 
** Maybe so,” Pyle picked his footing carefully on the 
1owy steps. ‘‘ But I don’t believe it’s very good cricket for 
s to analyze his family affairs.” 
‘Nonsense! We’re quite past the time for indulging in 
‘ny knightly restraints. Hudson’s in danger of shooting his 
putation to bits. Incidentally, it will give the whole 
clinic a black eye when the news spreads. If the chief is 

ff his feed because he’s fretting about his girl, then it’s high 
‘ime we talked candidly about her. She’s a silly little ass, 
you ask my opinion! ” 

* Well, you won’t be asked for your opinion. And it’s 
o good coming at it in that mood. She may be, as you 
ay, a silly little ass; but she’s Hudson’s deity! ” 

Jennings motioned him to climb into the coupé and 

fumbled in his pockets for his keys. 

“She wasn’t behaving much like a deity — unless Bac- 
chus, perhaps — the last time I saw her.” 

** Where was that? ” 

** At the Tuileries, about a month ago, with a party of 
eight. or ten noisy roisterers, in the general custody of that 
eood-for-nothing young Merrick — you know, old Nick 
Merrick’s carousing grandson. Believe me, they were well 
siled.”” 

“‘ Did you — did she recognize you? ” 

“Oh, quite so! Came fluttering over to our table to 
»peak to me!” 

“Humph! She must have been pickled! I thought she 

‘as getting on, all right, at a girls’ school in Washington. 

. . Didn’t know she was home.” 


8 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


Jennings warmed his engine noisily, and threw in the 
clutch. 

“‘ Maybe she was sacked.” 

Pyle made some hopeless noises deep in his throat. 

“Too bad about old Merrick. . . . Salt of the earth; 
finest of the fine. He’s had more than his share of trouble. 
Did you ever know Clif? ” 

“No. He was dead. But I’ve heard of him. A bum, 
wasn’t he? ”’ 

“‘ That describes him; and this orphan of his seems to be 
headed in the same direction.” 

“Orphan? I thought this boy’s mother was living — 
Paris or somewhere.” 

“Oh yes, she’s living; but the boy’s an orphan, for all 
that. Born an orphan!” Pyle briefly reviewed the Mer- 
rick saga. 

“Perhaps,” suggested Jennings, as they rolled into the 
club garage, ‘‘ you might have a chat with old Merrick, if 
he’s such a good sort, and tell him his whelp is a contaminat- 
ing influence to our girl.” 

“ Pfff!’? Pyle led the way to the elevator. 

“Well, if that proposal’s no good, why don’t you go 
manfully to the young lady herself and inform her that 
she’s driving her eminent parent crazy? Put it up to her as 
a matter of good sportsmanship.” 

“No,” objected Pyle, hooking his glasses athwart his nose 
to inspect the menu, “she would only air her indignation 
to her father. And he likes people to mind their own busi- 
ness — as you’ve discovered on two or three occasions. He 
keeps his own counsel like a clam, and doesn’t thank any- 
body for crashing into his affairs, no matter how benevolent 
may be the motive. . . . It would be quite useless, anyway. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 9 


Joyce can’t help the way she’s made. She is a biological 
throwback to her maternal grandfather. You never knew 
him. He was just putting the finishing touches to his 
career as a periodical sot when I arrived in this town, fresh 
from school. Cummings was the best all ’round surgeon 
and the hardest all ’round drinker in the state of Michigan 
for twenty years; one of these three-days-soused and three- 
weeks-sober drunkards. This girl evidently carries an over- 
plus of the old chap’s chromosomes.” 

“‘’You mean she is a dipsomaniac? ”’ 

“* Well — that’s a nasty word. Let’s just say she’s erratic. 
Ever since she was a little tot, she has been a storm center. 
Sweetest thing in the world when she wants to be. And 
then all hell breaks loose and Hudson has to plead with the 
teachers to take her back. Oh, she’s given him an exciting 
life; no doubt of that! And lately it’s booze! ” 

“‘ Hudson knows about that part of it, of course! ” 

““T presume so. How could he help it? She makes no 
secret of it. At all events, she’s no hypocrite.”’ 

Jennings sighed. 

“‘ Rather unfortunate she has this one embarrassing virtue; 
isn’t it? But, that being the case, I dare say she’ll have to 
go to the devil at her own speed. We must persuade Hud- 
son however to clear out and take a long leave of absence. 
He can take her along. Lay it on with a heavy hand, Pyle. 
Be utterly ruthless! Tell him it affects us all. That ought 
to fetch him. I never knew anybody quite so sensitive to 
the welfare of other people. Save that card for the last 
trick: tell him if he doesn’t clear out, for a while, he will do 
up the rest of us! ” 


10 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


oOo <S 


For the first half hour of their conference, which was held 
in the chief’s office the following Tuesday, Pyle stubbornly — 
held out for a trip around the world, Joyce to accompany 
her father. Indeed, the idea had seemed so good that he 
had armed himself with a portfolio of attractive cruise 
literature. He had even made out an intriguing itinerary — 
Hawaii, Tahiti, ukeleles— Pyle was a confirmed land- 
lubber with a dangerously suppressed desire to lie on his 
back, pleasantly jingled, under a trans-equatorial palm, 
listening to the soft vowels of grown-up children unspoiled 
by civilization — the Mediterranean countries, six months 
of hobnobbing with brain specialists in Germany. The 
latter item had been included as a particularly tempting 
bait. Hudson had often declared he meant to do that 
some day. 

The chief listened preoccupiedly; tried to seem grateful; 
tried to seem interested; but as Pyle rumbled on with his 
sales-talk the big man grew restless, refilled his fountain- 
pen, rearranged his papers in neater piles, had much diffi- 
culty hunting a match-box. Then he shook his head, 
smiling. 

No, much as he appreciated Pyle’s friendly concern, he 
“wasn’t going around the world; not just now. Of course 
he had been sticking at it too steadily. Lately he had had 
it on his mind to build a little shack in some out of the way 
place, not too far off, and put in there from Friday after- 
noon to Tuesday morning, at least in decent weather, 
tramp, fish, botanize, read light novels, sleep, live the 
simple life. He would begin plans on such a place at once. 
Spring would be along soon. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION II 


** And — meantime? ”’ persisted Pyle, gnawing at the tip 
of his uptilted little goatee. 

Hudson rose, slammed a drawer shut with a bang, swung 
a leg over the corner of his desk, folded his arms tightly, and 
faced his counsellor with a mysterious grin. 

“Meantime? . . . Pyle, I hope this won’t knock you 
cold. I’m going down to Philadelphia, week after next, to 
marry my daughter’s school friend, Miss Helen Brent.” 

Pyle’s eyes and mouth comically registered such stunned 
amazement that the Hudson grin widened. 

** And then the three of us will be spending a couple of 
months in Europe. I’ve arranged with Leighton to come 
over from the university and take care of such head cases as 
Watson can’t handle. Watson’s a good man; bright future. 
Oddly enough, I was on the point of asking you in to talk 
this over when you said you wished to see me.” 

Pyle bit off the end of a fresh cigar and mumbled felic- 
itations, not yet sufficiently recovered to pretend enthusi- 
asm. 

** Doubtless you think me a fool, Pyle.” 

Hudson took a turn up and down the room, giving his 
colleague an opportunity to deny it if he wished. Pyle 
puffed meditatively. 

** Seventeen years a widower,” mused Hudson, half to 
himself. He paused at the far corner to straighten a dis- 
ordered shelf of books. 

** A man accumulates a lot of habits in seventeen years.” 
He returned to his desk-chair. ‘‘ Sounds like the wedding 
of January and June, eh? ” 

Had Jennings been in Pyle’s place, his eyes would have 
twinkled as he replied, ‘“‘ January! What! You? January? 
Nonsense, Chief! Not a day over October, at the farthest! ”” 


12 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


Pyle smiled wanly, and shifted his cigar to the other 
corner of his mouth. 

“IT came by this valuable new friendship early last year 
when Miss Brent was made Junior advisor to my Joyce.” 

Something of sympathetic comradeship in Pyle’s reviving 
interest, now that he was partially coming to, encouraged 
Hudson to toss aside what remained of his reticence and 
tell it all. 

To begin with — Miss Brent was an orphan; parents 
reputable Virginians; most interesting French background 
on her mother’s side; same kind of blood that the guillotine 
spilt in 1789. . . . ‘‘ Quite pronouncedly Gallic, she is — 
at least in appearance.” 

Jennings, had he been there, would have been audacious 
enough to suggest, slyly chuckling, ‘““ Oh — in that case we 
should amend June to July!” Then he would have watched 
the chief’s face intently. 

But Pyle, who had no traffic with psychoanalysis, at- 
tached no significance whatever to the fact that the young 
lady’s probable temperament was somewhat on the chief’s 
mind. 

“About Thanksgiving,” Hudson was saying, “ Miss 
Brent, after a brief encounter with influenza, left the school 
and spent a few days at home. No sooner was she gone 
than Joyce slipped out, one night; attended a party, down 
in the city; defied some house rules as to hours; flicked all 
her classes next day; stormed until the shingles rattled when 
they rebuked her; and, in short, contrived to get herself 
suspended, notwithstanding that her record — thanks to 
Miss Brent’s influence — had been quite above reproach 
ever since she matriculated, a year ago last September.” 

The story went forward rather jerkily. Hudson was not 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 13 


given to confiding his perplexities to anybody. Pyle dis- 
creetly remained silent. 

“‘ Well — she came home and plunged immediately into 
a series of hectic affairs; out every night; in bed most of 
the day; nervous, testy, unreasonable. I can’t tell you, 
Pyle, how thoroughly it did me in. . . . She’s all I have, 
you know. 

** At my wit’s end, I suggested that she invite Miss Brent 
up to visit us through the holidays. Twice before had she 
been our guest for a few days, and I had seen something of 
her on my occasional visits to Washington. Believe me 
when I tell you that this charming girl was no more than 
across our threshold last week, than Joyce was another 
creature, poised, gracious, lovable — a lady! ” 

He paused to take his bearings before going further; im- 
pelled to explain how the swift movement of events, that 
first evening at dinner, amply accounted for his decision to 
ask Helen to marry him; reluctant, even in the interest of 
plausibility and self-defence, to give words to the memory of 
that occasion. It had all been so natural; so unimpeachably 
right; so precisely as it ought to be! He had remarked — 
perhaps a bit more ardently than he intended, for his heart 
was full — how happy it had made him — and Joyce — 
that she had come. “I don’t see how we can ever let you 
go!” he had said; to which Joyce had added impetuously, 
** Why need she ever go? She’s happier here than any- 
where else; aren’t you, darling? ” 

Pyle recrossed his legs and cleared his throat to remind 
the chief that he was still present. 

“As a matter of fact, Miss Brent is certain to be happier 
with us than she was at home. Since childhood, she has 
lived with an uncle, her father’s elder brother, an irascible, 


14 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


penurious, not very successful old lawyer. There are no 
women in the family. And I have reason to suspect that 
her cousin, Montgomery Brent, is a bit of a rake, though . 
she has idealized him out of all proportion; calls him 
‘Brother Monty,’ thinks him vastly misunderstood by his 
father and everybody else . . . that kind ofa girl, Pyle . 
espouses the cause of homeless cats, under dogs, misunder- 
stood cousins, my flighty, wilful Joyce . .. and now — 
thank God — she has promised to join forces with me/ I 
think she’s making something of a mission of it, Pyle. I was 
quite willing to wait until she had finished school in June; 
had some serious misgivings, indeed, about that; but she 
dismissed the thought lightly. If I needed her, I needed her 
now, she said. . . . I hope to God it works out! ” 

Pyle said he believed it would; moved to the edge of his 
chair; looked at his watch; asked if this was a secret. 

Hudson stroked his jaw, his eyes averted. 

**T don’t object to their knowing. . . . Let’s consider it 
sufficient, for the present, that I’m going to Europe with 
my daughter.”” He mopped his broad forehead vigorously. 
“ The rest of it they can learn in due time. Report to Aldrich 
and Carter and the others that I’m off on a vacation.” 

** Any special word for Mrs. Ashford, Chief? ” Pyle paused 
with his hand on the door-knob. 

Hudson thrust his hands deeply into his trouser pockets 
and walked to the window, staring out. 

** [ll tell her myself, Pyle,” he answered, without turning. 


\ 


Sei Se 


Doctor Hudson named his isolated retreat Flintridge. It 
was quite remote from the beaten trail of travel. A mere 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 15 


acre had been tamed to serve the cottage for which his 
hasty sketches, before leaving, were elaborated and executed 
in his absence by his loyal friend, Fred Ferguson, the best 
architect in town. 

It was an inhospitable bit of country, thereabouts. Sheer 
cliffs, descending abruptly to the black water (a long flight 
of wooden steps led to the little boat-house and adjacent 
wharf) had discouraged such colonization as had long since 
developed the western shore, two miles distant. Deformed 
pines clawed the rocks, sighing of their thirst in summer, 
shrieking of nakedness in winter. 

Almost from the first, Flintridge never knew certainly, for 
there was no telephone, when its master would appear for 
a week-end. It anticipated, made forecasts, baked ineffable 
angel food cakes, caught vast quantities of minnows for bait, 
and held itself in instant readiness to welcome the big man 
with the ruddy face (just a shade too ruddy, any heart 
diagnostician could have told him), silver-white hair, gray 
eyes with deep crows-feet, and expressive hands eloquent of 
highly developed dexterity. 

When and if he came, it would be on Saturday, late after- 
noon. Once only had he brought Joyce and Helen — 
strangers, passing them, presumed they were both his 
daughters — but that was merely temporizing with his 
promise to seek a retreat. And he now needed days off, if 
ever; for his young wife’s gregarious disposition and charm- 
ing hospitality had multiplied his social obligations in the 
city. 

How easily she had adjusted herself to his moods! How 
proud he was of her, not quite so much for her exotic beauty, 
as because of her exquisiteness of personal taste and the tact 
with which she met the rather exacting problems of fitting 


16 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


neatly and quickly into his circle of mature acquaintances. 
It delighted him that she chose the right word, wore the 
right costume, intuitively knew how to manage a dinner- 
party without seeming concerned as to what misadventures 
might have occurred in the kitchen. Yes; the affair was 
“ working out’? — how often he used that phrase! — im- 
measurably better than he had dared hope. 

Even the women liked her! They had accepted her on 
approval at first; but when it became evident that she had 
no intention of taking on airs because their grizzled spouses 
fluttered about her with the broad compliments privileged 
to fifty addressing twenty-five, they admitted she was a dear. 

But, however pleasant it was for Hudson to note his wife’s 
growing popularity, certified to by the increasing volume of 
their social activities, his new duties contributed little to the 
reinvigoration of that fatigued aorta which had worried Pyle. 

“* The chief’s in better fettle — think? ” said Jennings. 

“ Temporarily,” conceded Pyle. ‘‘ But you don’t mend an 
aneurism with late dinners, three a week. I’m afraid he'll 
crash, one of these days.” 

Not infrequently some visiting colleague — for Bright- 
wood now not only attracted patients from afar but had be- 
come a mecca for the ambitious in the field of brain surgery 
— would be driven out into the country to rusticate for a 
day or two. They seemed singularly alike, these brain- 
tinkers from otherwhere; moody, abstracted men, in their 
late forties and early fifties, most of them; seldom smiling, 
ungifted with small talk, not unusually.inclined to be some- 
what gruff. Hudson preferred to hold conferences with 
them at the lake, for their conversation would be tiresomely 
technical. And anyhow, men who trafficked daily with 
Death could not be expected to enliven a house party. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 17 


A devoted pair of middle-aged twins served as caretakers 
at Flintridge. What time Perry Ruggles, of the stiff knee, 
hairy throat, and Airedale disposition, was not tinkering 
the boat engine with greasy wrenches or trolling in and out 
of season for bass, he was teaching little patches of apathetic 
soil to take a maternal interest in iris and petunias. On 
Saturdays about five o’clock, he would put on his other 
coat and limp down to the gate that admitted from the 
narrow ridge road; and, having opened it, would flick little 
stones off the driveway with his good foot. 

Martha, his buxom sister, wrought ingenious quilts, con- 
cealed from the taciturn Perry the vandalisms of an im- 
pertinent, bottle-fed fawn; was silly over a pair of tame 
pheasants whose capacity for requiting her affection was as 
feeble as her need was great; scratched her plump arms 
gathering early berries in anticipation of some high moment 
when her pie would be approved with a slow wink, of which 
the learned guest, profoundly discoursing of surgical mys- 
teries to his celebrated host, would be entirely unaware. 

On Saturdays, about four-thirty, having again made sure 
she had laid out the doctor’s pajamas on the bed, and turn- 
ing the vase of roses on his chiffonier a little more to the 
advantage of the tallest, Martha would take her stand before 
the window in the sun-parlor, her knuckles pressed hard 
against her pretty teeth, devoutly praying for a swirl of 
yellow dust and a flash of glittering nickel at the bend of the 
ridge road, visible through an open lane of dwarf spruce. 

At the sound of gravel crunching under heavy tires, she 
would dash to the door and fling it open, always hoping — 
and hating herself for it — that the doctor had come alone 
or, if not alone, accompanied by another man. She had 
been uneasy, abashed, and awkward in the presence of 


18 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


young Mrs. Hudson, whose beauty had stirred remembrance 
of a certain pre-Christmas shopping excursion when she 
was nine. . . . There had been a French doll, so beautiful 
it had made Martha’s little throat ache with longing. Her 
wistful eyes had gushed sudden tears, and she had put out a 
hand, tentatively. 

*“No, dear,” her mother had cautioned. ‘“‘ You may 
look at her, but you mustn’t touch.” 


Sp See 


On the broad mantel in the “‘ gun room ” (there had been 
a bit of chaffing about the “ gun room,” seeing there was 
only one gun in it among all the miscellaneous instruments 
of sport — golf clubs, fishing tackle, and the like) an im- 
pressive row of silver cups testified that Wayne Hudson was 
no less expert at play than with the more important imple- 
ments of surgery. 

It was a frequent remark of his intimates that Hudson 
possessed an almost uncanny capacity for projecting the 
sensitiveness of his cognitive fingers to the very tips of what- 
ever tools he chose to manipulate. There were nerves in 
his niblick, in his casting-rod, in his scalpel. 

*“A lucky devil!’ bystanders used to remark when he 
had successfully made a long putt up-grade on a sporty green. 

“An uncommonly good guesser!”’ his confréres agreed 
occasionally, when some quite daring prognosis — probably 
defining the exact location of a brain tumor on such cryptic 
evidence as the arc of an eyebrow, the twitch of a lip, the 
posture of a hand in repose, or the interjection of an un- 
becoming phrase into casual conversation — was verified. 

Among the trophies on the mantel — whose inscriptions 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 19 


always amazed a visiting colleague, marvelling at his dis- 
tinguished host’s diversity of proficiencies — there was a 
tarnished triple-handled aquatic prize won by Doctor Hud- 
son when, in the early days of his interneship, he had taken 
a First in a mile swim. 

* Still swim? ” 

* Regularly.” 

* Enjoy it? ” 

‘* Well — it’s good for me.” 

** Keeps your weight down? ” 

“Perhaps. But, in any event, it’s good for me.” 

Some time in the course of his visit, the visitor would rag 
his athletic host upon the excess of his prudence; for the 
most conspicuous article of furniture in the “ gun room” 
was an elaborate but not very decorative inhalator of the 
super-type used by life-savers at busy wharves and crowded 
beaches, equipped with nickeled oxygen tanks and a com- 
plication of mechanical mysteries. 

“ What’s that thing? ” 

Hudson would tell him, briefly, brusquely. 

* What do you want with it? ” 

“* Oh, somebody might fall in. The water’s deep out here.” 

It was clear enough to the guest, if he ventured to press 
his queries, that Doctor Hudson did not enjoy any talk 
about aquatics. The guest found himself wondering why. 
Perry Ruggles could have explained, had he been disposed. 
There had once been a very anxious hour at Flintridge, 
down on the narrow pier. Not even Martha knew. The 
next time he had come out, Doctor Hudson had brought 
the inhalator, and had explained its use to the terrified 
Perry who thereafter stood in dread of the thing. It became 
a grim specter that haunted his life. Some day, he suspected, 


20 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


he would be obliged to experiment with it. The responsi- 
bility constituted a steady, remorseless threat that tortured 
him and kept him awake nights. Some sharp, man-to-man 
candor had been handed to the surgeon, that afternoon, by 
his uncouth caretaker. It had been a long time since any- 
body had called Wayne Hudson a fool to his face. He 
accepted the degree with dignity. 

“Perhaps I am, Perry,” he replied soberly. ‘‘ You prob- 
ably wouldn’t know. But, however that may be, the thing 
you’re to keep in mind is that this top valve controls the 
oxygen; and if you have occasion to use it, don’t get excited 
and forget.” 

> > 


Not a few men of importance to the surgical world, resi- 
dent in widely-spaced cities, recalled having had brief and 
somewhat disquieting conversations about swimming, while 
guests at Flintridge, when, one Sunday morning in early 
August, they read the front-page dispatch which reported 
that Doctor Wayne Hudson, widely known brain surgeon 
of Detroit, had drowned, the late afternoon before, near his 
summer place on Lake Saginack. 

At their breakfast table in Seattle, Doctor Herman Bliss 
read the shocking headlines to his wife, and when she had 
commented sympathetically, he added: 

“ Not only very sad, my dear, but very strange! ” 

Pressed for explanation, he reviewed for her the incidents 
of a visit he had paid to his friend at the lake cottage, and 
the heavy constraint which had fallen upon their conversa- 
tion when he had made some inquiries about his host’s en- 
joyment of the water. 

“Do you suppose,’ 


> 


conjectured Mrs. Bliss, “ that there 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 21 


could have lurked in his mind some vague mirage of the fate 
that waited for him? ” 

Her husband pursed his lips and shook his head. “I 
don’t take much stock in such theories,” he declared, al- 
most too vehemently to be convincing. 

“But you told me once that Doctor Hudson was ‘ pres- 
erent 7! 

“Only a form of speech, Grace. Nobody is prescient. 
However, Hudson was extraordinarily sentient; psychic, to 
an uncommon degree.” 

“‘ But why did he persist in swimming,” inquired Mrs. 
Bliss, ‘‘ if he was afraid of it? ” 

** For that very reason, unquestionably. I never knew a 
man so impatient of normal people’s timidities, or more 
passionately eager to make himself independent of fear. 
Doubtless this was the one thing that gave him anxiety, and 
he was resolved to master it.” 

*“‘ But — by the same logic,” objected Mrs. Bliss, ‘‘ he 
might have jumped off a precipice, if he found himself 
afraid of that.” 

*“‘ Not quite the same thing! Here was something he had 
been able to do with ease, skill and safety. Now, for some 
reason, he had suddenly become afraid of it. An experience 


of cramp, perhaps. ... . Might happen again. The fear 
filtered through his thinking. . . . Had prided himself on 
living in complete mental liberty. . . . Knew now that he 


was housing a dread! So long as he gave that phobia the 
hospitality of his mind, he would be, by that much, no 
longer his own man; so he decided to go to the mat with his 
antagonist. I fancy that explains.” 

The newspaper account further detailed that by a singular 
coincidence the inhalator which Doctor Hudson owned, and 


22 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


kept at his cottage, was in use on the other side of the little 
lake at the exact moment of his own tragic need of it. 

A few hundred yards off shore, near his grandfather’s. 
estate, “‘ Windymere,”’ young Robert Merrick, alone in his 
sailboat, had been knocked unconscious by a jibbing boom 
and pushed into the water. 

** Must have been drunk,” indignantly commented Doc- 
tor Bliss. ‘‘ Things like that don’t often happen to sober 
people.” 

Excited bathers, informed that there was an inhalator at 
the Hudson cottage, had rushed a speed-boat across for it, 
and after an hour’s heroic exertion, were successful in restor- 
ing the young man to partial consciousness. It was said that 
he would undoubtedly recover. 

** Unquestionably! He would! ” growled Bliss. 

It was believed, said the dispatch, that had the inhalator 
been immediately available and promptly applied, Doctor 
Hudson’s life might have been saved. The caretaker, Perry 
Ruggles, observing the evident distress of his employer, had 
rowed quickly to the spot, dived for him, dragged his limp 
body into the boat. Desperately, Ruggles had set forth with 
his unconscious passenger toward the Windymere beach, and 
had rowed until his strength failed. Small craft, attracted 
by his signals, hurried to him; found him huddled over the 
lifeless body of Doctor Hudson, weeping hysterically, while 
the little boat drifted in the middle of the lake. 

“* Never saw such dog-like devotion as old Perry’s. I sup- 
pose: he went in after him, clothes and all; bad leg too.” 

Robert Merrick, the paper continued to explain, was the 
only son of the late Clifford Merrick and Mrs. Maxine 
Merrick, now resident in Paris. He had only that day re- 
turned from an extended visit with his mother, having gone 


1 >? 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 23 


abroad immediately after finishing at the State University 
in the mid-year senior class. He was further identified as 
the grandson of Nicholas J. Merrick, retired founder and 
large stockholder of the Axion Motor Corporation, with 
whom he made his home at ‘‘ Windymere.” 

** Hope this youngster will be able to realize how valuable 
a person he is,” said Doctor Bliss, putting down the paper, 
*‘ now that he has had his life handed back to him at such a 
price! ”’ 

There was still another coincidence connected with this 
event. The village physician, suspecting that Merrick’s head 
injury might be in need of more skilful examination than he 
could give it, had sent him in a swift ambulance to Bright- 
wood Hospital. At that moment he did not know that the 
man who had made Brightwood famous for its brain surgery 
would be unable to see his young patient. 

“What do you suppose the boy said,” speculated Mrs. 
Bliss, ‘‘ when he learned what it had cost to save his life? ”’ 

“Well,” reflected the doctor glumly, “‘ from my own ob- 
servation of the type of young cub whose father is dead, whose 
mother lives in Paris, whose doting grandfather is a retired 
millionaire, and who gets himself bumped off his boat by a 
boom in broad daylight, I should suppose he just scratched 
a match on the head of his bed and mumbled, *‘ Whadda yuh 
know about that!’ ” 


II 


ae AND CAREFULLY — FOR HE WAS STILL LIMP FROM 
his battle with pneumonia, resultant from the prolonged use 
of a lung-motor in the inexperienced hands of excited people 
— two nurses had trundled young Merrick up to the well- 
appointed solarium. 

‘It won’t hurt him a bit,’’ Doctor Watson had said, 
“ and there is at least the suspicion of a breeze upstairs.” 

Parking his chair in an alcove somewhat sequestered from 
the general assembly of convalescents, most of them white- 
turbaned like himself, his uncommunicative attendants had 
pattered quickly away as if relieved to be off to more pleasant 
undertakings. 

Their scamper added to his perplexity. Yesterday he had 
tried to explain the prevailing taciturnity of the people who 
waited on him: it was the weather. The muggy, mid- 
August humidity accounted for it. If doctors were brief 
and brusque, nurses crisp and remote, it was because the 
patients were fretful ... everybody out of sorts... 
naturally. 

But, even so, something more serious than a low barometer 
ailed this hospital. Its moodiness was too thick to be in- 
terpreted by a murky yellow sky, the abominable rasp of 
cicadas in the dusty maples, or the enervating heat. Bright- 
wood was in trouble; nor could Bobby shake off the feeling 
that he, himself, was somehow at the bottom of it; else why 
this conspiracy of mute glumness in their attitude toward 
him? My God! ... He might as well have been some 
penniless bum, fished out of the gutter, and patched up for 
sheer humanity’s sake. . . . Didn’t they know who he was? 

24 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 25 


. . . Why, his grandfather could buy up the whole works, 
and never miss it! 

It wasn’t that they’d neglected him, he was bound to 
admit. Somebody had been always hovering over him. . . . 
God! . . . What a ghastly experience he had been through! 
... That fog ... drifting in grayish-white, balloon-like 
billows across the road — impenetrable, acrid, suffocating — 
a damp, chilling, clinging cloud that pressed painfully against 


his chest, swathed his arms, clogged his feet. . . . That trip 
back from Elsewhere! . . . Would he ever live long enough 
to forget? It made him shudder to remember it! . . . That 


unutterable fatigue! 

Sometimes it had been more than he could bear. After 
he had plodded, staggering, groping his way, for a few 
shaky steps, the Thing would rush him, with a roar like 
heavy surf, and hurl him incredible distances back toward 
oblivion. Then the violence of the storm would subside, 
followed by an ominous silence. . . . Was he really dead, 
this time? . . . Suddenly, the Thing would swoop him up 
again and pitch him deeper into the stifling fog. . . . 

After years and years of that — he had grown old and 
stiff and sore with his hopeless struggle — the situation had 
begun to clear. Now and again there were ragged rents in 
the fabric of the fog through which certain landmarks might 
be fleetingly recognized, as steeples and spires come up, 
faintly, on an acid-touched plate. These hazy perceptions 
were, at first, exclusively olfactory. He had read, some- 
where, that the nose was more integrally a part of the brain 
than the other sense organs. Perhaps the smelling faculty 
(he had taken more than a casual interest in physiology) 
was the oldest of all the perceptive organs; earliest to evolve. 
But no; that would be feeling . . . feeling first, then smell- 


26 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


ing... . It had amazed and amused him that part of 
his mind seemed to be trudging alongside, analyzing the 
predicament of the rest of his mind, wading through the. 
fog. 

Now there had come a much wider gap in the drifting 
cloud, and through it breezed a combination of identifiable 
odors; strong scents crushed hard against his face; smell of 
good wool, and, buried in the wool, iodoform, cigarette 
smoke, chlorides of this-that-and-the-other, anesthetics, anti- 
septics, laboratory smells, hospital smells. 

A weight shifted about on his chest. It was warm. It 
throbbed. It pressed firmly, rested briefly, moved a little 
space, paused again, listened; went back to spots it had 
visited before; listened, more intently. 

Then the weight had lifted and the medley of smells 
vanished. Through the next rift in the fog, voices were 
speaking from a vast distance; one of them calm, assured; 
the other bitter, unfriendly. . . . That had been the be- 
ginning of his perplexity. . . . 

“T believe he’s going to pull through! ” 

** Doubtless — and it’s a damned shame! ” 

After that, there had been a complicated jumble of voices 
— one of them a woman’s — before the fog closed in on 
him again. Occasionally, the cloud would tear apart, and 
he would take up his load . . . he seemed to be carrying 
some enormous weight . . . and plod on woodenly. He 
would have yawned, but deep breathing had gone out. 
They weren’t doing it any more . .. quite too painful. 
One breathed in short, dry, hot gasps . . . glad to have 
them at the price. . . . Tom Masterson had confirmed that 
fact. . . . Tom — doubtless this was part of his delirium — 
Tom had sat by the bed; and, queried about the new 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 27 


style of breathing, remarked, “‘ That’s the way we’re all 
doing it. . . . Not nearly so good as the old way, of course, 
but better than none.” 

Another smothering billow of fog had engulfed him; but 
the Thing wasn’t in it. He didn’t mind now, so long as the 
Thing was gone. 

He opened his eyes and glimpsed a square of blue sky 
through a real window. The curtain fluttered. A motor 
churned in a court somewhere below; gears rasped, gravel 
scrunched. Ice tinkled in a glass, near at hand. A starched 
nurse, eyes intent on. her watch, fumbled for his forearm. 
The sharp tip of a thermometer dug cruelly into the roots 
of his tongue. That was what ailed it, then — all this awk- 
ward gouging while he had been unconscious. 

He had become aware of the steady drone of an electric 
fan, the metallic whir of a lawn-mower in parched grass; 
had dully explored his cracked lips with a clumsy tongue; 
had regarded with apathy the nurse who bent over him; 
and, after a few hoarse croaks, had contrived to ask where 
he was. She told him. Sluggishly, he surmised that his 
presence at Brightwood indicated there was something 
wrong with his head. There was; it ached abominably, 
and was bandaged. He felt of it gingerly, and inquired. 

““A hard bump. But you are doing very nicely. Drink 
this, please! ” 

And then he had slept some more. A dim light was burn- 
ing when he awoke. Everything was very quiet; so he de- 
cided to go to sleep again. Another day came . . . two or 
three of them, maybe . . . he couldn’t remember. 

A young, red-headed doctor, in a white coat, had appeared 
and asked some questions of the nurse. He seemed a friendly 
person . . . but young. Doctor Hudson was the big man 


28 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


at this place. If there was something the matter with his 
head, he wanted Hudson. 

“T say,” he had called, stiffly turning his eyes toward . 
the doctor, “‘ why doesn’t Doctor Hudson look in? He 
knows me. I’ve been at his house. Does he know I’m 
here?.7 

““Y’m Doctor Watson, Mr. Merrick. I’m looking after 
you. Doctor Hudson is not in the city. .. .” 

After Doctor Watson had left the room, he had beckoned 
the nurse to the bedside. Had Miss Hudson called? .. . 
No; but that was because he wasn’t seeing visitors yet . . . 
that is, not many. ... Yes, his grandfather had been in 

. and a Mr. Masterson. .. . The accident? ... Oh 
yes, they would tell him all about that, a little later. . 
What he needed now was sleep; lots and lots of it; no worry 
or excitement. . . . What we wanted now to make us well 
was sleep. . . . Then we could have visitors, and the vis- 
itors would tell us everything we wanted to know... . 
That kind of silly baby-talk! . . . Hell’s bells! 

This morning however he had grown impatient. These 
people were carrying their stupid silence strike too far! 
Obviously he had been in some sort ofa scrape. Very well. 
. . . It was not the first time.. There would be some way 
to settle it. There always had been. Was he not accus- 
tomed to paying for smashed fenders, broken china, splint- 
ered furniture, outraged feelings, and interrupted business? 
If anybody had a grievance, let him make a bill of it, and he 
would draw a check! It wasn’t any of this hospital’s busi- 


ness, anyway! Or... was it? . . . What could he have 
done to their damned hospital? . . . Run into it? j 
“ Tell me this much, won’t you, Miss... ?” 


** Bates.” 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 29 


**. . . Miss Bates; just how did I get this whack on my 
head? . . . And I won’t ask you any more questions.” 

** ‘There was a mast or something flew around and knocked 
you off a boat.” 

** Thanks.” 

A mast had knocked him off a boat! He grinned; tried 
to remember. Well — that was that; but how did the 
hospital get in it? 

> > 


At noon, his nurse had been relieved for an hour by a no 
less important factotum than Mrs, Ashford herself, superin- 
tendent of the hospital. 

She sat by the window with a trifle of needlework in her 
hands, apparently intent upon it; but quite aware of her 
patient’s mood and expectant of an outburst. 

Bobby studied her face and decided in its favor. It was 
a conclusion to which patients at Brightwood customarily 
arrived with even more promptness, but he was in no state 
of mind to lose his heart impetuously to anyone in this 
establishment where he was being treated with such con- 
temptuous indifference. 

He found himself guessing her age. Everybody indulged 
in such speculations on first sight of Nancy Ashford. Her 
maternal attitude toward the staff, the nurses, the patients, 
was premised solely upon her white hair. The fact that she 
had come by it in her early twenties, at the time of her 
husband’s fatal illness, in no way discounted the matronly 
authority it gave her as the general counsellor at Brightwood. 
Notwithstanding her quite youthful face and slim, athletic 
figure, many people who outranked her in years called her 
mother — a perfect specimen of the type that instantly 


30 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


invites confidences. She had become a repository for a 
wider diversity of confessions than come to the ear of the 
average priest. : 

Doctor Hudson’s tragic death had been a deeper sorrow 
to her than anybody connected with Brightwood was ever 
going to know certainly — whatever might be guessed; and 
the business of bearing it with precisely the right outward 
expression of regret was the most serious problem she had 
ever faced. 

For fifteen years Mrs. Ashford had grown more and more 
indispensable to Doctor Hudson. Entering his experimental 
hospital as an operating nurse, shortly after the death of her 
husband — a promising young surgeon and protegé of the 
brain specialist — she had quickly and quietly transferred 
many an administrative responsibility from her chief’s 
shoulders to her own, almost without his realizing how 
deftly she had eased him of an increasing volume of weari- 
some details. The time came when her decisions represented 
the opinions of Doctor Hudson, and went unquestioned. No- 
body was jealous of her influence over him, or of her calm 
authority over the institution. Improvident young internes 
sought her counsel in their troublesome business affairs. 
Nurses told her their love stories. Patients laid their hearts 
bare to her; confided everything from minor domestic per- 
plexities to major crimes; wrote to her after they had gone 
home; not infrequently proposed marriage to her; deluged 
her with Christmas gifts. 

“* Isn’t she sweet? ” the women patients would say. She 
was not. The word was silly, applied to her. She was 
understanding, tactful, and, above all, strong; with the face 
of a young woman, the mind of a man, and the white hair of 
a matron. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 31 


There were some other things about Mrs. Ashford which, 
had young Merrick known, might have changed his attitude 
toward her that morning, as she sat jabbing her needle into 
the bit of tapestry and waiting for him to blow up. 

Doctor Hudson had taken her for granted. He had 
grown accustomed to confiding every difficulty to her, and 
only rarely was he disposed to debate any of her opinions. 
There was no phase of his professional life to which she was 
a stranger. Even some of the strictly private enterprises to 
which he gave himself with stealthy concern — thinking 
them effectively concealed — she had discovered, either by 
chance or shrewd guess; and from that knowledge she had 
long since deduced at least a vague and troublesome idea of 
the motive back of them. He would have been amazed — 
perhaps somewhat annoyed — had he known that Nancy 
Ashford almost knew the one important secret of his life. 

How deeply she cared for him, and the nature of that 
affection, the surgeon suspected, but resolutely refused to 
recognize. Anything like a mutual admission of their actual 
dependence upon and attraction for each other would, he 
felt, lead to unhappy complications. He could not marry 
her. Joyce would have disapproved. 

Svwewarse: . . . Why, Daddy! .°.:. You wouldn't! .... 
You mustn’t! ” 

On the morning that he told Nancy he was to be married 
the next Tuesday to Joyce’s college friend, she had said 
quickly, ‘‘ A very sensible thing to do. She will make you 
happy. I am so glad for you.” 

“IT had hoped you might think that,” he replied, ob- 
viously relieved. 

Luckily for both, they were not facing each other. He 
was tugging on his rubber gloves, in the little laboratory 


32 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


adjacent to his operating-room, and she was buttoning his 
long white coat down the back. He pretended not to notice 
how long it was taking her. 

“All right, back there?” he sang out, with attempted 
casualness, glancing over his shoulder. 

“ Quite all right now,” she had answered, in a tone that 
matched his for lightness; but — it was not quite all right. 
. . . Nothing would ever be quite all right again. 

Bobby had felt his heart warming toward the lady of in- 
determinate age who busied herself with the needle, evi- 
dently unaware of the tumult of his mind. He decided to 
disturb her peace. He would ask a few questions which he 
had been at some pains to compose. They sounded a bit 
bookish, as if memorized. . . . It was clear enough, he 
said, that he had been in some kind of a mess. He was for- 
ever getting into messes. That appeared to be his occupa- 
tion. It was customary with him, he recited, with what 
sounded more like silly bravado than he had intended, to 
be in a bad scrape and not know the full particulars until 
the next morning. What was this one about? Had any- 
body else been hurt? He could not recall. If there were 
damages, he would gladly pay. 

It had turned out to be a surly speech, as it progressed; 
mostly because Mrs. Ashford did not look up from her work, 
or seem properly attentive to the petulant complaint. Mis- 
taking her effort at self-control for but another exhibition of 
the indifference under which he had fretted, Bobby grew 
irascible. In the very middle of a spluttery sentence how- 
ever he broke off suddenly and regarded her with perplexity. 
As she raised her eyes to meet his, he saw that they were 
brimming with tears. Her lips trembled. 

**What have I done?” he demanded huskily. “It’s 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 33 


something very terrible. I can see that in your face. You’ve 
simply got to tell me. I can’t stand this anxiety any longer! ” 

Mrs. Ashford put down her work on the table, came to 
the bedside, and taking one of Bobby’s hands in both of her 
own said, “‘ My friend, something has occurred here that 
makes us all very, very unhappy. It happened about the 
time that you came here. We are not recovered from it. 
But it was not your fault, and the damages cannot be settled. 
You need give yourself no further concern about it.” 

Not a bit satisfied, but assured by Mrs. Ashford’s tone that 
their discussion was at least temporarily a closed incident, 
Bobby made no further effort to press his inquiries. He 
murmured his regrets that there had been any trouble and 
sank into his pillows, disquieted, but — whatever was the 
matter, it was no concern of his. That was good. That 
was ever so much better than he had feared. 

It had been a very welcome diversion, an hour later, when 
Doctor Watson had suggested the solarium. In the rumbling 
elevator, Bobby had made a feeble effort to be jocular. It 
was impossible that the grief which had seemed to distress 
the matronly Mrs. Ashford would be equally experienced by 
so young and pretty a girl as the slender blonde who stood 
at his elbow, silently awaiting their arrival at the top floor. 

“Tl bet you a box of candy against a pleasant smile,” 
he said, grimly, “that we do less talking in our hospital 
than any place else on earth.” 

Instantly he realized it was the wrong thing to have said 
to her. She did not challenge his statement. It was not 
that she was offended. It was rather as if she had not heard 
him. She was in trouble. She was in the same kind of 
trouble that afflicted everybody else in this hospital. It 
plunged him again into the gloom from which he had partly 


34 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


extricated himself through the not very reassuring state- 
ments of Mrs. Ashford. 

Squelched to a shamed silence by the girl’s rebuff, he gazed _. 
steadily ahead, conscious of flushed cheeks, as they wheeled 
him into the alcove, adjusted his pillows, half-lowered the 
blind, moved the screen closer to isolate him from the 
others, and, without a word or a smile, hurried away. 

He must have been there an hour or more before he 
learned what he thought he had wanted to know. 

In the course of that hour, failing of scraping together 
enough remembered facts to be of any service in the solu- 
tion of his problem, he had gone wool-gathering in all 
directions. 

Perhaps it was his sense of utter desolation and loneliness 
that had set him going over the path of his singularly bitter 
childhood. 

> > 


Bobby Merrick had grown up about as independent of 
the normal restraints imposed upon children as could have 
been possible in civilized society. 

When he was a little lad, his father, Clif Merrick, had 
been too much occupied with business — what time he was 
not yacht racing, deer hunting, or on other journeys not 
quite so clearly explained — to pay any attention to the sensi- 
tive child beyond an occasional pat on the head as he passed 
him on the stairs in tow of a governess; or a brief and clumsy 
tussle in imitation of paternal playfulness. The big man was 
always half drunk when he made these rough overtures of 
comradeship. The boy dreaded seeing his father approach, 
of a late afternoon, with a flushed face, suggesting a good 
romp together. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 35 


On such occasions, if she was present, Bobby’s neurotic 
mother usually intervened. 

*You’re much too rough with him, Clif,” she would 
expostulate. ‘“‘He’s only a little boy. You hurt him! 
Stop it, I tell you! ” 

“* Nonsense! ”’ his father would reply, glancing toward the 
governess for approval, “you don’t know anything about 
boys. Does she, Bobby? ” 

In all truth, she didn’t; but the lad would be distressed 
over the episode, hardly knowing what answer was expected 
of him. 

Once — how vividly he remembered this! — his mother, 
upon being sarcastically scorned in his presence for the way 
she was “bringing up a soft little mollycoddle, with his 
hands full of dolls and dishes” (true enough), had shocked 
him by screaming, in a shrill falsetto, ‘‘ Leave him alone; 
damn you! I won’t have you bullying him any more when 
you’re drunk! You touch him again and I’ll call the police!” 

The police! For his father! Bobby remembered that it 
had made him ill — nauseated. The governess had had to 
carry him upstairs, where he was awfully sick. He even 
remembered what it was he had eaten — currant pudding. 
He had never cared much for currants thereafter. 

Clif Merrick so steadily ragged the child, after that, about 
his girlish toys and trinkets, that Bobby himself revolted 
against the soft program the women made for him and 
gratefully approved when his father suggested boxing lessons. 
Strangely enough, he found himself happy with the new 
sport. Eager to test the value of the instruction he was re- 
ceiving, he occasionally slipped away from the big house 
about time for school to be out in the afternoon, attired in 
an immaculate black velvet suit with white lace cuffs, and 


36 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


waited at the corner for somebody to yell “‘ Sissy! *? When 
he returned home he would be very dirty and greatly in 
need of repair, but grinning from ear to ear. . 

When he was twelve, Bobby’s father had died suddenly of 
pneumonia brought on by exposure while duck hunting in 
nasty weather. Young as he was, the boy realized that his 
mother’s bereavement was accepted by her with a calm 
fortitude out of all proportion to her weakness for indulging 
in self-pity. 

One of her remarks, upon their return from the cemetery 
that bleak afternoon, was chiseled indelibly upon her son’s 
mind. None of the epitaphs he had regarded with childish 
curiosity, as they drove slowly along the narrow, winding 
roads, was carved deeper. Sometimes, when he thought of 
it, he winced; sometimes he grinned. 

** Well,” she said, handing Colleen her furs, “‘ that’s that! ”’ 

** Yes, ma’am,”’ dutifully replied Colleen, accustomed to 
occasional outbursts of caste-forgetful confidences vouch- 
safed by her mistress, “‘ it certainly is! ”’ 

And then, apparently dissatisfied with her rejoinder, which 
had taken an almost too casual view of the matter for one 
-who entertained so wholesome a respect for death, Colleen 
added, sepulchrally, ‘‘ It must have been very hard, ma’am, 
to leave him out there.” 

Upon which followed the memorable elegy spoken by his 
mother. 

“Well; Pll know now where he is!” 

Sometimes, when, as a collegian, Bobby was at that exact 
stage of intoxication where the tragic in a man’s experience 
becomes distorted into broad, screaming farce, and even 
sacred memories make wry faces and put out their tongues 
in scorn of everything decent, he would recall his mother’s 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 37 


elegiac comment, laugh uproariously, and pound his knee. 
“‘ What a corking epitaph! ” he had shouted once, and had 
instantly cursed himself for a drunken fool. 


<} Se 


Bobby could not remember precisely when he had be- 
come conscious that his father and mother despised each 
other. It must have been while he was still a mere baby. 
By the time he was eight, they had stopped quarreling, 
their mutual contempt too ponderous for so frail a vehicle 
as speech. Unquestionably she had suffered much; but it 
was no use trying to champion her cause. She was entitled 
to her son’s pity, and had it. He would have been glad 
enough to have respected her, too, had that been possible. 

Petulant, selfish, suspicious — Maxine Merrick was no 
end difficult. Her only proficiency was her skill as a pianist; 
and aware that it was the sole endowment she was in a posi- 
tion to transmit, she had begun to teach the child piano 
technique almost before he knew the letters on his building- 
blocks. 

A restless soul, she was; temperamentally cursed with 
“floating anxiety”’; pretty, after a fashion . . . a transparent 
blonde . . . always attracting attention at the opera where 
she quite took one’s breath away with her beauty at thirty 
yards; given to fits of melancholy, for which there was 
plenty of excuse, God knew; dissatisfied with her own per- 
sonality which she constantly endeavored to improve, either 
by tinkering with her face and figure, or by taking her di- 
sheveled mind to quack psychiatrists and will doctors for 
adjustments. She was on the sucker list of all the advertis- 
ing mountebanks in town; talked seriously about palmistry; 


38 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


had paid a considerable sum for a horoscope which related 
her affairs somehow with the movements of Arcturus; fre- 
quently had her fortune told. 

She vibrated between institutions for the care of the body 
and the cure of the soul. Having spent a busy season of 
assiduous devotion to the business of being plucked, picked, 
dyed, frescoed, and massaged; sitting long and painful hours 
in the studios of beauty experts, Maxine would suddenly 
experience an unaccountable surge of disgust, and make off 
hurriedly to some sanatorium de luxe where, in seclusion 
almost conventual, she lived on unsalted insipidities, and 
listened of evenings in the lounge to mellifluous harangues 
on personality expression . . . nervesinorder . . . the will 
to live . . . life at its utmost; followed by less sidereal com- 
ments by the chief of staff concerning the importance of 
internal purity — not of the conscience, which was out of 
his field, as the piracy of his bills attested — but of the 
colon, to which he referred with a bland candor somewhat 
disconcerting to the newer arrivals, still serving their noviti- 
ate in the by no means unexacting vocation of hypochondria. 

During these spells of improving her health and person- 
ality, Maxine would lose many pounds and add as many 
new words to her pathological vocabulary. It suited her 
mood, during such retreats, to become as disdainful of her 
appearance as a Thibetan lama. 

One day, for no apparent reason other than caprice, 
there would be a flurry of trunks and boxes, tickets and 
taxis, and a swift return home, to the utter consternation of 
yogis who had been fattening on her patronage, and the 
indignant amazement of pallid charlatans whose income 
would be alarmingly depleted by the sudden demobiliza- 
tion of her crusade for the Perpetual Light. It would be 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 39 


generally rumored among the patients that Mrs. Merrick 
was a brilliant social leader . . . “simply required, my 
dear, to stop and rest for a few weeks, now and then, if you 
know what I mean”. . . which was nonsense; for Clif 
Merrick never took her anywhere, and she could have 
numbered her friends on her fingers. 

On these excursions in quest of youth, beauty, sweetness 
and light, his mother never took Bobby along. He re- 
mained at home in the custody of grafting servants and an 
endless procession of young governesses, none of whom ever 
stayed longer than a few weeks. The prettier ones were the 
quickest to go . . . sometimes on an hour’s notice. He had 
put on quite a scene when Miss Newman had left without so 
much as saying good-bye to him, and had been slapped by 
his father for the racket he was making. 

Shortly after Maxine had been assured that henceforth 
she would know exactly where Clif was, the big house on 
Piedmont Square was sold, and Bobby was taken to Europe 
where his mother rapidly improved in health and spirits. 
He was placed in a school for rich waifs at Versailles, where he 
fraternized with youngsters who had become an embarrass- 
ing liability to divorced parents. On brief vacations he 
joined ‘“‘ Maxine ”’ — as he obediently called her — in Paris, 
scowling his distaste when, in the presence of her new 
friends, she chattered baby talk to him, to which he made 
sour replies in a voice that frequently skidded off the treble 
clef. She had filled her spacious apartment with wigged 
and bangled old harridans, who swapped dull prattle about 
their aristocratic relatives for caviar and champagne and 
was inordinately vain of her ménage, which Bobby impudently 
insisted would better be called her menagerie. 

There were lonely summers at Brighton and Deauville, 


40 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


lonely Christmases at Cannes; private schools and syco- 
phantic tutors; trains and hotels; brief, dry, hard friend- 
ships with over-sophisticated, unwanted boys like himself,. 
envious of their mothers’ Pekineses, and not infrequently 
dizzy with pilferings from the decanter on the sideboard. 

At seventeen, he had been sent back, alone, to enter a 
high-toned prep school in Connecticut where, for previous 
lack of a balanced intellectual ration and experience of 
steady discipline, he survived only until Thanksgiving. 
Headmaster Bowers saw him off on the train and returned 
to lead the chapel exercises. Ineffable calm sat on his brow, 
and his voice was vibrant with unfeigned gratitude as he 
announced, ‘‘ We will stand and sing the Doxology.” 

Through the influence of old Nicholas, Bobby was then 
accepted, provisionally, in another preparatory school, a 
Military Academy not quite so close to salt water... . “It’s 
just a ritzy reform school,” he wrote, on his first day, to his 
perplexed grandparent, who replied, in substance, that, if 
that were so, it was quite the place for him. To his in- 
structors there, he gave more bother than any other six, but 
contrived to stay on. Through these days, he renewed his 
abandoned taste for boxing, under a preceptor who cuffed 
him about, shamefully, until he discovered that the boy was 
game and thereafter took an interest in him. It was Mr. 
Bowman’s boast, when Bobby finished with them, that albeit 
he was a bit frail in algebra, he could lick his weight in 
wildcats. 

. id le 


It was at the State University, however, that Bobby had 
struck his stride. Neither a loafer nor a dunce, he easily 
ran circles around the average student in such classes as 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION Al 


stirred his curiosity. Zodlogy? . . . He ate it up! Physi- 
ology . . . psychology . . . chemistry . . . he was con- 
stantly amazing his friends by his ardent boning, especially 
in chemistry, in the face of his utter indifference to scholastic 
credit in the courses he disliked. 

His David-and-Jonathan friendship with Tom Masterson 
had been good for him; better for him than for Tom, a 
likable youngster with an insatiable ambition to be a short- 
story writer. 

They had found each other as rushees at a luncheon for 
freshmen in the Delta Omega house, and decided on the 
spot to room together. Young Masterson, however eager 
to emancipate himself from the restraints of a rather se- 
verely disciplined household, was something of an idealist, 
and opened up a new world to Bobby who, listening at first 
because he liked Tom, and later because he liked what 
Tom said, learned from his youthful tutor a love for the 
classics which, in the original, he had despised. 

But Masterson, not having been brought up on cocktails, 
was not much advantaged by the tardy instruction he re- 
ceived in exchange for his Greek and Roman mythology. 
Once he started — no matter what the hour, place, or cir- 
cumstance — Tom could be depended upon to continue 
drinking until he was unconscious. Bobby, approximately 
sober, would get him home, somehow, and put him to bed 
with all the solicitude of a mother. Apparently it never 
occurred to him that he was jeopardizing his chum’s future. 

“Poor old Tommy! ” he would say, unlacing his shoes. 
“T’m afraid you’ll just never learn to drink like a gentle- 
man!” 

Nor was the Merrick influence much of a blessing upon 
the Delta Omega house into which he and Tom moved as 


42 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


sophomores. Had he been less lovable, he might have been 
less dangerous. His charming irresistibility was fatal to the 
good resolutions of many a chap who honestly wanted to. 
stay sober and do his work. Even the seniors — by custom 
disdainful of juvenile society — once they were in debt to 
him for lavish hospitality which was at first reluctantly 
accepted, found themselves careening over the road in 
Bobby’s big touring-car, late Friday afternoons, en route to 
his grandfather’s home on Lake Saginack. 

And the indulgent old man, believing they would all have 
a better time if they had the house to themselves — and 
eager to be out of the racket — would be driven in to the 
city to find sanctuary at the Columbia Club. The neighbor- 
hood used to protest, but old Nicholas always reminded 
them — when they complained of drunken demons, for 
whose conduct he was presumably responsible, driving reck- 
lessly with open mufflers and raucous sirens, at all hours of 
the night — that boys would be boys. When they smashed 
something, he paid for it. 

Not infrequently Bobby’s week-end guests went back to 
Ann Arbor on Monday morning without a nickel; wearing 
their very socks by permission of their host, who owned 
them after an all-day poker game on Sunday. How often 
they promised themselves, “‘ Never again! ”? but it was hard 
to stand out against Bobby’s insidious smile. Moreover, the 
food and service at old Nicholas’ country palace was a tempt- 
ing diversion from the near-starvation of fraternity fare and 
the discomforts of a crowded house’ where nothing ever re- | 
ceived anxious thought and respect but the impending pay- 
ments on the mortgage. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 43 


Se 


For some time, Bobby had been conscious of a dull rumble 
of conversation just beyond the screen. It began to annoy 
him. Somestupid ass was airing his home-brewed philosophy. 

** All this here talk about Providence . . . Providence; 
bah —I say! . . . Take this very case, for instance! .. . 
Here is a noted man who had made himself so useful that 
people came to him from thousands of miles for help that 
nobody could give them but him! ... Look at me, for 
Bastapcel) 435) .. "7 

Bobby scowled, and. muttered, ‘“‘ Yeah! . .. Look at 
you! . . . It’s bad enough to have to listen to you! ” 

** Look at me! I came here clear from Ioway; and lucky 
enough I got here when I did. . . . Last operation he ever 
performed, they tell me! . . . And they might have saved 
his life too if that pulmotor thing, or whatever it was, hadn’t 
been in use on that drunken young What’s-his-name with 
the rich granddaddy! What right had he to be alive, 
anyhow . . . now I ask you? ” 

It may have been Bobby’s sudden pallor that attracted 
the attention of the nurse who sat at the little desk by the 
door. . She quickly crossed the room and asked if there was 
anything he wanted. Bobby swallowed with a dry throat, 
attempted a grateful smile, and replied weakly, “‘ Perhaps 
I should go back... feel better in bed... not very 
strong yet. Tell them, will you? ” 

His exit from the solarium was effected with such prompt- 
ness that the patients observed it. Who was this youngster? 
Questions were asked and answered. The man who had 
discoursed of the unseemly ways of Providence was deeply 
contrite. . . . Wished he’d known, he said. 


44 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


Bobby’s nurse stepped out into the corridor, after putting 
him to bed, and an interne passing by remarked, “So he 
knows all about it.” 

** Well, he had to find out sometime, didn’t he? ” 

“* Yes — but he’s a pretty good scout. . . . And it was a 
rotten way to dish it up to him!” 

‘You should worry,” snapped Miss Bates. 


o SS 


For hours, Bobby Merrick lay with his eyes closed, motion- 
less, but not asleep. At first, he was hotly indignant. What 
right had these saps from Ioway, or wherever, to pass judg- 
ment on what kind of people had a right to live? How 
could anybody be so small-minded as to hold it against him 
that his life had been saved, even if it could be shown that 
Doctor Hudson might have been rescued if the oxygen 
machine had been available? It wasn’t his fault. He hadn’t 
borrowed the damned thing! He hadn’t asked to have his 
life saved at that price, or at all! 

And then his resentment over this monstrous injustice 
gave way to steady thinking. Perhaps, after all, he was 
under a certain obligation to this dead man. Very good; he 
would show his appreciation of what it had cost to save his 
life. He fell to wondering whether Doctor Hudson had left 
his young wife and Joyce properly provided for. Joyce was 
extravagant. He knew what it must require to keep her 
going. He had had her in tow, occasionally, himself. 

“ See if Mrs. Ashford is free to come here for a moment,” 
commanded Bobby. The nurse nodded stiffly, left the room, 
and, in a few minutes, Mrs. Ashford stood by the bedside. 

Assuming what he believed to be a mature, conventional, 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 45 


business tone — the tone of large capital about to indulge 
itself in a brief seizure of magnanimity — he inquired, with- 
out preamble, “‘ What sort of an estate did Doctor Hudson 
leave? ” 

““T do not know,” she replied; and after a pause added 
crisply, “‘ Why? ” 

The dry crackle of that “ why? ” irritated him. She had 
given him reason to believe that she was sympathetic. 
Surely she might know he was not asking this question out 
of sheer curiosity. 

“You seem to infer that it is none of my business,” he 
retorted. ; 

Nancy Ashford colored slightly. 

“* Well,” she snapped, “‘ is it? ” 

Bobby’s face felt hot. He was at a serious disadvantage, 
and she was not helping him; not making the slightest 
attempt to understand him. 

“You might at least credit me with an honest wish to do 
something about all this, if I can,” he expostulated angrily. 

“I am sorry if I offended you,” — with forced composure 
— “ You were thinking of giving some money to the family? ” 

“ If they need it — yes.” 

** Whose money? ” 

Bobby raised up on one elbow and scowled. 

** Whose money? Why, my own, of course! ” 

** Some you earned, maybe? ”’ 

For a moment, he was speechless with exasperation over the 
studied insolence of her query. Sinking back upon the pillow, 
he motioned to her to leave him. Instead, she took her stand 
at the foot of his bed, and, hands on hips, militantly began 
an address distinguished for its lack of polite ambiguity. 

**'You invited this,” she said thickly. ‘‘ You called me in 


46 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


here to get some information about the Hudsons, and I’m 
going to tell you! And then you can pay them off... 
with your grandfather’s money! Do you know what killed 
Doctor Hudson? . . . Worry! They said it was overwork 
that weakened his heart. I know better! The only thing 
that counted in his life, besides his profession, was Joyce. 
He saw her going to the dogs. Part of that was your fault! 
You’ve had a reputation for ruining all your friends! ” 

Bobby Merrick lay stunned under the attack, his eyes wide 
with amazement at the woman’s audacity. 

“The poor chap tried to pull himself together.” Her 
voice wavered a little, but she went on with resolution. 
* Built that little house at the lake; went swimming when 
he wasn’t able; knew he wasn’t able; had provided a lung- 
motor for emergencies; and then, at the moment when he 
has to have it — you're using it! You — of all people! And 
now you casually suggest settling the bill with money! ” 

Something in his look — it was the look of a hurt animal — 
checked Nancy’s passionate diatribe. 

“* Please forgive me,” she muttered agitatedly. “‘ But, as I 
say, you invited it. You wanted to know. I have told 
you.” 

Bobby swallowed awkwardly, and rubbed his brow with 
the rough sleeve of his cotton smock. 

“Well,” he muttered hoarsely, ‘‘ you’ve told me. If 
you’ve said everything you have to say, I won’t keep 
you.” 

She’ started toward the door, paused, turned about, 
walked slowly to the window and stood looking out, her 
left elbow cupped in her right hand, the slim fingers of the 
other tapping her shoulder, agitatedly, at first; then medi- 
tatively. Bobby watched the slowing tempo of her fingers, 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 47 


cleared his throat nervously, and decided to meet her 
half way. 

*“‘ That was really all I had to offer; wasn’t it? . . . just 
money? ” 

She returned slowly to the bedside, drew up a chair, sat 
down, and rested her plump arms upon the white counter- 
pane close to his pillow. 

‘You have something very valuable besides money; but 
you'll never use it.” Her tone was judicial, prophetic. “ It’s 
in you, all right, but it will never come out. Nobody will 
ever know that you. had it. The money will always be 
blocking the way. . . . You were much disturbed today, 
because you overheard an impolite insinuation that your 
life wasn’t worth saving at the price of Doctor Hudson’s. 
Naturally, you resented that. Your indignation does you 
credit. . . . However — crude as that man was, what he 
said was true, wasn’t it? ... You admitted it was true 
when you decided to put up a cash difference. But you 
can’t justify yourself that way. It might make things more 
comfortable for the Hudson family; but it wouldn’t help 
you to live with yourself again.” 

She had taken his hand in hers, maternally. Disengaging 
his eyes, she stared upward absorbedly, and murmured, as 
if quite alone, “‘ He’d never do it, of course. . . . Couldn’t! 
. . . Wouldn’t! . . . Too much money. . . . It would be 
too hard . . . take too long . . . but God! ... What a 
chance!” 

Bobby stirred uneasily. 

“I’m afraid I don’t get you . . . if—if you’re talking 
about me.” 

** Oh, yes, you do!’ She nodded her head, slowly, em- 
phatically. “‘ You know what I mean . . . and you wish 


48 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


you were up to it... but—” pulling herself together 
resolutely,‘ you’re not; so we won’t talk about it any more. 
. . . Is there something I can get for you before I go?” 

Bobby raised a detaining hand, and their fingers interlaced. 

**T think I know now what you’re hinting. But it’s quite 
impossible, as you say. It’s worse than impossible. It’s 
ridiculous! Doctor Hudson was famous! Nobody can ever 
replace him! . . . Oh, I say, Mrs. Ashford; that’s quite 
too bad! I didn’t mean to say the wrong thing, you know! ” 

For Nancy’s eyes had suddenly tightened as if wincing 
under sharp pain, and her white head bent lower and lower 
in a dejection strangely out of keeping with her aggressive 
personality. He ventured to touch her hair in a clumsy, 
boyish caress, murmuring again that he was sorry. 

* That’s all right, boy,” she said thickly, regarding him 
with weary eyes, suddenly grown old. ‘ You needn’t worry 
about me! ... Jil carry on! ... My little problem is 
quite simple compared to yours.” 

She straightened up, patted his hand, ‘and smiled. 

Bobby raised on one elbow. 

“*'You’re a good sport, Mrs. Ashford! ” 


“Thanks! . . . You like people to be good sports; don’t 
you? ... SodoJI. Id rather be a good sport than worth 
millions! . . . I expect you’re a pretty good sport too: 


aren’t you, Bobby? ” 

He relaxed on his pillow and studied the ceiling. 

“Your — what you were talking about — would be a 
sort of'sporting proposition; wouldn’t it? ” 


PS Ouitel °2 
“Years and years! ” 
“ For life! . . . There would be no discharge in that war! ” 


She extended her hand, as one man to another. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 49 


“T’m going now. ... Sure you’re not angry with me 
any more? ” 

He shook his head, with tightly closed eyes, and gripped 
her hand. The emotional tension of the past half hour was 
taking advantage of his physical weakness. Hot tears seeped 
through his lashes and trickled down his temples. 

Nancy withdrew her hand, stood for a moment silently 
regarding him, her knuckles pressed hard against her lips; 
then turned away and quietly closed the door behind her. 


Ill 


ison SAY HE’S DIFFERENT,” PURSUED JOYCE INTERESTEDLY. 
‘“* How do you mean — different? Sober, perhaps? ” 

Masterson chuckled. 

“Don’t be a fool! ” she growled. ‘‘ You know very well 
what I meant.” 

He returned his empty glass to the silver tray on the 
table, settled himself comfortably into the cushions of 
the garden swing, and so frankly considered the slender 
shapeliness of the girl in the wicker chair that she shifted 
her position uneasily. 

“Yes,” he replied, reverting tardily to her question, “ he’s 
all of sober, and then some. He’s owlish . . . morose... 
prowls the night like Hamlet . . . has an idea that people 
resent his having been saved from drowning.” 

** How absurd! Did he tell you that? ” 

** As much as.” 

She thumbed the pages of the novel that lay in her lap 
and frowned. 

“* Well — and what is he proposing to do about it? .. . 
Sulk? ” 

Young Masterson indicated by a slow shake of the head, 
eyes half closed, that the problem was too vast for him, and 
meditatively tapped the end of a fresh cigarette on the arm 
of the swing. 

“You'll discover for yourself that Bobby is greatly altered 
since his accident. I can’t quite make him out. Yesterday, 
when I saw him at Windymere, I expected to find him in 
better spirits. He is almost well now; has been walking 
about on the grounds for days. But he seems thoroughly 

59° 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 51 


preoccupied. I suggested it might improve his disposition 
if we threw together a little cocktail, and he said, ‘ You 
know where the makings are: help yourself.’ I shook up 
enough for both of us, but he wouldn’t join me; and when 
I ragged him about it, he replied, from about ten miles off, 
that he’d ‘ another plan in mind.’ 

*“* © Something that doesn’t include gin, evidently,’ I sug- 
gested; and he nodded cryptically. 

“* Something like that,’ he replied. You know about 
how little he discloses through that poker face of his, when 
he decides to be incomunicado.” 

“* So — you dared him to tell you, I suppose.” 

“No; I just kidded him a little, but he didn’t take it 
very nicely. Just sat— and posed for ‘The Thinker.’ 
‘What’s the big idea?’ I said. ‘Gone over to Andy 
Volstead? ’ ” 

“What did he say?” demanded Joyce, as the pause 
lengthened. 

** He said, ‘ Hell, no!’ and then mumbled, down in his 
throat, that he’d gone over to Nancy Ashford.” 

“And who’s Nancy Ashford?” she inquired, sharply, 
flushing with annoyance over her disclosure. 

“You ought to know,” smugly enjoying her vexation. 
“She is the superintendent of Brightwood Hospital.” 

“Oh — you mean Mrs. Ashford. I hadn’t thought of her 
as Nancy. They must have become quite well acquainted. 
Why, she’s an old lady.” 

“* Well — so much the better; wouldn’t you say? ” 

She met his banter with a grimace. 

“You spend too much of your time thinking up story 
plots, Tommy. It’s affecting your mind.” 

“* Maybe so,” agreed Masterson dryly. He stretched his 


52 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


long arms over the back of the swing and regarded her with 


an inquisitive smile. ‘‘ Your own story grows more excit- 
ing every minute. What else do you want to know about 
Bobby? ” 


Joyce offered him the concession of a crooked smile. 

“* Did he say whether he was coming in soon? ” 

“‘Nary a word on that. However, he may not feel him- 
self quite up to it yet... . Rather awkward situation, 
you'll admit.” 

She nodded, and there was a moment’s silence. 

“You have Bobby and me all wrong, Tom. We were 
together pretty steadily ...in December .. . before 
Helénjcame/2. 17 

Masterson broke in with an unpleasant chuckle. 

“I’m surprised that you remember anything about De- 
cember,”’ he teased. ‘‘ My own recollection of it is very 
pale.” 

“Yes; Dll admit it was rather dreadful. Especially the 
evening we celebrated your birthday. That must have been 
a mighty rough night on the sea. Incidentally, I have not 
seen Bobby since. When he finished at the university in 
February, he sailed for France to visit his mother, without 
a line to me that he was going. I had two short letters from 
him later. Then he turns up at home; next day this dread- 
ful thing happens to us.” 

She hesitated before going on. 

“So — now you know exactly how thick we are. Does 
it sourid — romantic like? ” 

““ Of course, you’re bound to keep it in mind,” observed 
Masterson soberly, “ that Bobby feels quite terribly about 
the — the thing that occurred out there at the lake. Never 
having met Helen, he is a bit shy about meeting her now. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 53 


He may fear she would be slightly prejudiced against him, 
under the circumstances.” 

“T’m afraid she is,” agreed Joyce reluctantly. ‘ En- 
tirely natural that she would be.” 

“* How is Helen, by the way? ”’ 

** Oh, she’s steady — the darling! Want to see her? [ll 
tell her you’re here.” 

She rose, handing Masterson her book. 

“‘ Helen has been entertaining a queer little lady for the 
past hour or more, but I think she is free now. The caller 
was one of father’s patients, I presume. So many people 
have been here lately . . . all sorts . . . people we had 
never heard of who come with tearful gratitude to tell us 
what father had been to them. Really, it has kept us quite 
stirred up. I wish they wouldn’t. . . . And letters? ... 
Today there was a long one from a man in Maine hinting 
that father had saved his life, somehow, years ago. He didn’t 
state the particulars. . . . Seemed rather secretive, as if 
there were some big mystery behind it; as if there were 
something he wanted to tell, but couldn’t. Very queer. . 

I'll go and call Helen.” 
oS boa 


She turned toward the big white house with the green 
shutters, and Masterson’s eyes appraisingly followed her 


graceful movements as she crossed the lawn. . . . Some 
girl! . . . He set the swing gently in motion and inhaled 
deeply from his cigarette. . . . A thoroughbred! So, she 


was Bobby’s, then? What the devil did Bobby mean — 
trying to keep this a secret from him? _ Well, if she consid- 
ered herself Bobby’s property — and obviously she did — 
Bobby’s pal must be loyal. However, a man could look at 


54 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


her, couldn’t he? . . . And wish she belonged to him? 
. . . Acompliment,in a way . . . perhaps . . . debatable 
question, probably. . . . But seriously, why shouldn’t an | 


artist in creative writing have as much license to admire 
beauty for its own lovely sake as a painter — no matter 
whose girl she thought she was? What a type! Not many 
blondes like that left in this dyed and painted world. .. . 
Original colors, these. ... Pale gold and milk white; 
with the slinky-footed gait of some wild woods thing. . . . 
Some girl! But what made her think Bobby was interested 
in her? Or—was he? If so, he had kept his sentiments 
carefully concealed. .. . 

Joyce’s reappearance through the shrubbery, accompanied 
by her step-mother, interrupted Masterson’s day-dreaming. 
The two offered a striking contrast. Mrs. Hudson was 
Latin in every feature and curve, in the glossy blackness of 
her shingled hair, the arch of her brows, the utter lack of 
self-consciousness in her posture and carriage. Joyce was 
perfect Saxon; slightly the taller. Leading the way, she 
seemed the older. 

He strolled to meet them. Helen waved her hand, upon 
sight of him. She had adopted the réle of being years his 
senior, much to his amusement. They had often made a 
little game of it — he, cast for the part of a spoiled nine- 
year-old, which he carried off with amazing skill; she, the 
exasperated but polite mother, endeavoring to keep her 
whelp in hand without making too much of a scene. They 
had done it, quite spontaneously, at thé Byrnes, one evening. 
Laura Byrne, upon her own testimony, “‘ had about passed 
out.” Senator Byrne had said the skit was worth a fortune 
in vaudeville ‘“‘ big time.” They had thought it not half 
bad. themselves. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 55 


The conventional uniform of the bereft had only accen- 
tuated her youth. It called attention to her girlish vitality, 
deepened her dimples, whitened her throat; as a severe 
frame on a bright etching will heighten its colors; empha- 
size its values. 

She extended a small hand and smiled. Her recent ex- 
perience had left traces. She was pale and a bit remote, her 
appearance suggesting convalescence from a serious illness. 

The smile fluttered momentarily and was gone; but it 
was essentially the same smile that one waited for, plotted 
for, tried to recapture.in memory, analyzed without success. 
Once Masterson had attempted to persuade one of his women 
in a story to smile like that; but she couldn’t learn it. He 
had written, of “‘ Gloria ’? — 

“It was more than a smile. It was a little sonata, in 
three movements. It arrived first in her eyes, which grad- 
ually grew wider and bluer. Almost imperceptibly, but 
very disturbingly, the patrician brows lifted, ever so little, 
as if they asked permission. That was the adagio movement. 

** Then, suddenly, the sonata played upon her lips, as 
when an organist seeks with one hand a lower bank of keys 
for the melody. ‘They parted to disclose the smallest, 
straightest, whitest of teeth. That was the scherzo movement. 

*‘ Instantly, however, as if the lips had become alarmed 
at their own audacity, they closed, demurely. But the 
smile lingered in her eyes —in the outer corners of her 
eyes — long after her pretty mouth had done with it; and 
that was the largo movement. Largo dolcemente. 

“And the beholder? What of him? Ah — but his pulse 
ran on into throbbing, pounding sérotto! ” 

Masterson knew the description was silly. He had added, 
rather helplessly: 


56 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


‘“‘__a vastly disquieting smile; a smile to be smiled with 
discretion, preferably among strong-minded, elderly men — 
relatives, if at all convenient to have relatives at hand.” 

Helen Hudson smiled. Today it was a sonatina. The 
movements were adagio, andante, lento; but it was no less 
stirring for its chastened mood. 


S25) ee 


“It seems a long time since we saw you, Tom,” she said, 
in her husky contralto, motioning him to a place beside her 
in the swing. 

Joyce had remained standing. 

“Tommy,” said she, “‘ I had promised Ned Brownlow I 
would go for a ride with him. He’s out front now, waiting 
forme. . . . MindifI go? ” 

“Depart in peace!”? Masterson held up two fingers, 
pontifically. ‘‘ I am in excellent hands.” 

Joyce’s slim fingers trailed caressingly across her step- 
mother’s shoulders as she moved away. “I'll not be long, 
dear,” she said. 

“« Have you been getting out, at all? ’ inquired Masterson, 
with comradely solicitude. 

Helen shook her head. 

“Too busy! Callers come here at all hours; people one 
can’t very well refuse to see; patients of Doctor Hudson’s 
and others he appears to have befriended in one way or 
another. I presume you recall the quite unusual number 
of floral remembrances. . . .” 

““T never saw so many! ” 

“Well, Tom, those flowers came at the direction of people 
from many places; from persons whose relation to us was 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 57 


very difficult to establish. Fully a score were unidentifiable 
by anyone at Brightwood. And these callers I am receiving 
daily are mostly unknown to us. They come to inquire if 
there is anything they can do for Joyce and me. Yesterday 
a queer old Italian turned up and tried to present me with 
a thousand dollars. That’s just a sample. Their stories 
are quite different, what there is of them — for they are 
strangely reticent — but one fact is common to all... 
sometime, somewhere, Doctor Hudson had helped them 
meet a crisis — usually involving money loaned; though 
not always money; sometimes just advice, and the aid of 
his influence.” 

“* He surely had a big heart! ” said Masterson. 

“Yes, certainly; but there’s more to it than that. Lots 
of men have big hearts, and are generous with their money. 
This is a different matter. His dealings with these people 
were something other. They all act as if they belonged with 
him to some eccentric secret society. They come here eager 
to do something, anything, for me, because they want to 
express their gratitude; but when you pin them down and 
invite them to tell you by what process they got into our 
family’s debt, they stammer and dodge. It’s very strange. 

*“* Since two o’clock, I’ve been listening to a story that 
perplexes me more than any of the others; probably be- 
cause I prodded a little deeper into the mystery. An old 
lady I didn’t know existed came to tell me what a wonder- 
ful man Doctor Hudson was, and could she be of any aid 
to me? ... Id like to talk it over with someone. Would 
it bore you? ” 

“* Tell me — please! ” 

* Well — it all began, said Mrs. Wickes, with an opera- 
tion on her husband. Doctor Hudson had warned them it 


58 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


was hopeless. The family was left destitute. She says there 
was no bill sent from the hospital; that Doctor Hudson 


found a good position for the older boy and sent the girl, © 


who had some talent for drawing, to an art school... . 
She pointed to that lovely marine over the mantel in our 
living-room, and said, ‘ That’s hers. She gave it to him. 
It was exhibited by the Architectural League in New York.’ 
. . . Doctor Hudson had stood between them and disaster, 
she said, until they were able to look out for themselves; 
and when, a couple years later, she went to his office with a 
small payment on the debt they owed him, he refused to 
accept it; said, at first, that he had had enough joy out of 
it, and didn’t want to be repaid any farther. She quite in- 
sisted; and he said, ‘ Did you ever tell anybody about our 
little transaction?’ ‘No,’ she replied. ‘ You told me not 
to—and I didn’t.’ ‘ Then,’ he declared stoutly, ‘I can’t 
take it back! ’ 

“‘ Of course, she was dissatisfied to leave it that way — 
she has all the instincts of a lady — but when she pressed 
him to take the money he explained, ‘ Had I considered 
this a loan, I could accept its repayment. I did not so re- 
gard it, when I invested it in your family. You have all 
been much more successful and prosperous than I thought 
you were going to be. So— since I believed I was giving 
it to you outright, I can’t take it back now because, in the 
meantime, J have used it all up, myself!” ” 

“Pardon me,” said Masterson, “I don’t believe I 
quite understand. What was that last thing he said to 
Her??? 

Helen nodded, mysteriously, and repeated the inexplicable 
phrase. 

“You may well inquire,” she went on. “‘I asked Mrs, 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 59 


Wickes what that meant, and she grew restless. ‘I can’t 
say that I rightly know,’ she stammered. 

“** But you have a suspicion! ’ I said. 

*“‘ At that she hurriedly changed the subject by taking a 
bulky purse from her handbag. She pressed me to take the 
money. It had been invested, she said, and now she wished 
to restore it to us. 

“I said to her, ‘ If Doctor Hudson refused to accept it, so 
shall I. You had best reinvest it. Put it back where it was, 
if it yielded a good rate.’ 

“Oh, I can’t do that,’ she replied. ‘ They’re quite done 
with it, you know.’ 

“Well, after that, I gave it up! She was over my head 

** Perhaps she’s a bit cracked,”’ hazarded Masterson. 

Helen was thoughtful. 

“Yes; she would be cracked, and we could let it go at 
that, and smile over it, if she was the only one of her species.” 

** You mean that you’ve entertained some more like her? ” 

She nodded. 

** Yesterday, a quite well-known merchant called on me. 
You would recognize his name. His affair with Doctor 
Hudson dated ten years back. He wanted to pay me a 
pretty large sum of money which he said was interest on a 
loan. I thought it odd that he was coming forward with it 
after so long a time, and he confessed that Doctor Hudson 
had refused it. So did I, of course. 

** My curiosity had the better of me, and I pressed him 
to tell me about it. He said that about ten years ago he 
was on the rim of failure. He had started in business for 
himself; had over-reached; and, as if-he was not having 
enough anxiety, his wife passed through a lengthy and 
expensive illness. He had built a beautiful home. It was 


} >? 
. 


Go MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


more than half paid for. He decided to let it go at a cruel 
sacrifice to get cash to put into his tottering business. He 
listed the house with a real estate concern. It was worth 
thirty-five thousand dollars. He was offering it for twenty 
thousand. There was a temporary depression of real estate 
values. Well — next day, he said, Doctor Hudson came to 
see him. 

***J understand you’re selling your home for twenty 
thousand dollars. Why are you doing that? It’s worth 
twice that much.’ 

“The young merchant explained that he must have 
money immediately, or his business would fail. 

““*T’ll lend you twenty thousand,” said Doctor Hudson. 
‘TI haven’t it, but I can get it. Pay me the principal of 
this loan when you are prospering again. I shall not expect 
any interest, because I have use for it, myself; and you are 
not to tell anyone, while I live, that we have transacted this 
business.’ ”’ 

** What an odd deal,’’ commented Masterson. 

“Wait until you hear the rest of it,” said Helen quietly. 
“‘ Within three years, my caller said, he had returned the 
money, and was insistent upon paying interest on the loan. 
Doctor Hudson refused to take it. And what do you think 
he said when he declined to accept the money? ” 

GIVEN p 

“ He said, ‘I can’t take it, you see; for Pve used it all up 
myself!’ Now — that’s five distinct times I’ve heard that 
phrase, in the past week! What do you make of it? ” 

“* Queer! ” said Masterson. ‘* Couldn’t have had some- 
thing to do with his income tax, could it? You know... 
so much allowed for gifts, charity, and the like.” 

“Tommy, don’t be foolish! ” 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 61 


“Well — have you a theory? ” 

“Not the faintest glimmer of one.”? Then, animatedly, 
“* Did you ever hear the story of Doctor Hudson’s early life? ”’ 

“No; does it offer a clue to these queer performances of 


his? ” 


“Not at all . . . at least, it offers no clue to me. Per- 
haps . . . to a psychologist, which I am not... . But, I 
think Id like to tell you. . . . It’s no secret. 


“You see, Wayne’s parents were very poor. They lived 
on a farm upstate somewhere. He had to look out for 
himself, early. As a boy he had wanted to be a surgeon. 
He came to Detroit, at fifteen, to enter high school, and 
worked in the home of a Doctor Cummings . i 

** And married his daughter! I knew that much.” 

“You’re going too fast. . . . In the Cummings home, 
Wayne Hudson was errand boy, hostler, accountant, and, 
on occasion, nurse, cook, private secretary, and rescue squad.” 

“Rescue? How’s that? ” 

Helen hesitated. 

“This Doctor Cummings was a very capable man, with 
a large practice; but unfortunately he drank too much .. . 
periodically. At intervals of anywhere from three weeks to 
two months, he would disappear for days. It was Wayne’s 
duty to track him down, clean him up, bring him home, 
and meantime invent excuses for his absence and serve as a 
shock-absorber between the doctor and all his interests — 
the hospitals, the patients, the family.” 

“Not a very pleasant occupation for a high school boy.” 

“No,” agreed Helen, “ but calculated to mature him 
early. And it was not by any means a thankless task. 
Doctor Cummings was of course deeply appreciative and in 
his repentant moments assured him of his lasting gratitude. 


62 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


He sent Wayne to college later, and guaranteed his medical 
training with a life insurance policy, which, strangely enough, 
became accessible exactly when he had most need of it, for 
Doctor Cummings died when Wayne was a senior in college.” 

‘** Perhaps that helps to explain Doctor Hudson’s mar- 
riage while he was still a medic,” commented Masterson. 
** Doubtless the girl was fond of him. He felt under heavy 
obligations to the family. That ... and the propinquity 

. so he married her.” 

“Not quite that,” corrected Helen. ‘‘ He was very fond 
of her; had given up everything to be in Arizona with her 
until she died. For more than four years, she was his chief 
concern. Naturally, he couldn’t give proper attention to 
his work. He told me he had days of depression, while in 
the medical school, fearing he had mistaken his vocation, 
after all. His studies were hard, and he had much difficulty 
keeping up with them.” 

“One would hardly think that Doctor Hudson had ever 
found his studies difficult.” 

“He continued to find them so, for fully a year after 
his wife’s death. Then, something happened! No; I do 
not know what it was. He did not tell me, and I did not 
insist; but something happened! One day he became con- 
scious of a new attitude toward his books, his profession. 
He worked whole nights in the hospital laboratory, without 
fatigue. Then, soon after, through an odd circumstance, he 
was obliged to do a difficult operation at three o’clock one 
morning on an emergency case —a head injury. It at- 
tracted much. attention. From then on he specialized in 
brain surgery. You know how well he succeeded.” 

Masterson closed one eye, and considered her thoughtfully, 

““T can see,” he said, measuring his words, “ that it’s 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 63 


somehow in the back of your head that this rather remark- 
able change in him . . . this quite sudden step-up from de- 
pression . . . sense of failure . . . halfway notion to quit 
medicine and sell bonds or something . . . into prompt 
recognition and success . . . I think you suspect that it’s 
all tied around this — this funny business of his charities? 
Am I right? ” 

She nodded. 

“Mostly however because here are two mysteries about 
him. I suppose I have tried to relate them .. . uncon- 
sciously, perhaps. They may have no association, at all. 
. . . Maybe he would have told me all about it, had he 
lived. . . . But — we’ve talked enough about mysteries, 
Tommy. Let’s go and look at the asters.” 

Masterson followed her through the garden, admiring her 
childish enthusiasm over the autumn flowers. It was as if 
she caressed them. He knew she expected him to go now, 
and toyed with his keys. 

“Don’t stay in too closely,” he admonished. ‘‘ These 
people will wear you out.” 

* 1’m taking a few days off . . . going up into the country 
tomorrow, to see Martha, our caretaker’s sister. She’s not 
very well . . . dreadfully broken up, you know; and I 
haven’t seen her since it all happened.” 

“ Might I drive you up? I should like to! ” 

“Thanks; but I shall want my car while I am there.’ 

“We might tow it! ” 

** Oh — do you really want to go up there so badly as 
that? IT’ll tell you what you may do; drive Joyce up to 
Flintridge, Sunday afternoon. Probably I'll be lonesome 
by that time.” 

They strolled together to the gate. 


64. MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


** How fine it is that you and Joyce still have each other! ” 

“* Yes; .isn’t it? ”’ 

He stepped into his car, waved a hand, and disappeared 
around the corner. Slowly Helen retraced her steps to the 
garden, sauntered along the narrow path, stooped to cup 
her pink palms around a garish dahlia. How fine it was 
that she and Joyce still had each other. . . . Or had they? 


IV 


As OLD NICHOLAS AROSE FROM THE TABLE THAT SATURDAY 
night, he said, no more to his tall grandson than to himself, 
“I am glad I could live until now! ” 

The past eight years had been dreadfully unhappy for 
him. It was not that there had been fresh reasons for un- 
happiness, but leisure to realize how much of life’s solider 
satisfactions he had missed. 

From his ’teens until his retirement-from the business he 
had organized, Merrick’s consuming passion had been 
concerned with the development of a great industry; an en- 
terprise singularly difficult in that it lacked the natural guid- 
ance of established precedents. There were rules to be made 
for it, but none to be followed. It was a business without 
an ancestry. 

Men who dealt with any product in the field of ceramics 
had thousands of years of good tradition back of them. 
Weavers, tanners, jewelers, masons; builders of houses, 
ships, cathedrals; growers of grain, fruit, cattle — these 
people could plat their economic curve and determine future 
policies by past experience. It was not so of motors. 

The rise of that industry had been meteoric, dramatic! 
A prosperous young bicycle factory turned its attention to 
the experimental manufacture of a horseless carriage, as a 
tentative sideline. Young Merrick’s stockholders were 
frankly skeptical of the venture in the face of public hilarity 
over the noisy, undependable, cumbersome, dangerous 
gasoline buggy. 

And then—one day —the power-driven vehicle was 
suddenly an accepted fact. But the distance between the 

65 


66 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


fox-statured eohippus and the draft horse was no wider than 
that of the evil-smelling little rattle-trap of an automobile, 
when Nicholas Merrick first made its acquaintance, and the 
strong, swift, silent, streamline motor-car which eventually 
developed. 

Its evolution involved hazards as foolhardy as invest- 
ments at Monte Carlo. A bewildering succession of revolu- 
tionizing inventions made the business over, again and again, 
while investors wrung their hands and shrieked discordant 
counsel into the ears of apprehensive directors. Costly 
machinery, installed yesterday, would be scrapped today to 
be replaced by costlier tomorrow. Those were days when 
the man who bore the final responsibility for such a chaotic 
enterprise found that twenty-four hours’ devotion to busi- 
ness was demanded by this unprecedented industry, 
plunging impetuously over an uncharted course, narrowly 
skirting ruin every few weeks, and turning sharp corners 
every day. 

Responsive to general clamor, prophetic of great fortunes 
to be made, innumerable companies hastily entered the 
motor-mart where competition became merciless, unscru- 
pulous. Disaster was inevitable for all but a few of the 
keenest, the bravest, the luckiest. Merrick experienced all 
the anxiety of a pioneer leading a long wagon-train of 
scared emigrants across a trackless desert without a com- 
pass. For fully thirty years, but little of his time or thought 
had been deflected from his exacting responsibility. 

When, therefore, at seventy-two, he’ wearily dismounted 
from the tiger he had ridden — an event which called for a 
brilliant complimentary banquet at the Chamber of Com- 
merce in the suburban town of Axion — he was a very tired 
old man with a fortune estimated at twenty millions, a 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 67 


high blood pressure, and a large stock of disquieting mem- 
ories. 

Clif. . . . God! — what a tragedy! ... Clif’s mother 
— a timid, brown thrush of a woman — had died when the 
boy was twelve. Nicholas had scarcely missed her. They 
had built the big shops, that year. He saw little of the boy. 
Occasionally there would be a brief and stormy session — 
Nicholas violently hortatory, Clifford calmly insolent — but 
nothing ever came of it beyond estrangement. 

Nobody could say he had not done his utmost to surround 
his son with opportunities. Surely if money could have 
done it, Clif had a chance. Nicholas had always silenced 
his own misgivings with that reply. 

“God knows I’ve spent enough on him! ...I can’t 
nurse him, myself! ”’ 

But now that enforced idleness had brought opportunity 
for serious reflection, Nicholas milled it all over, elbows on 
knees, empty hands dangling. The old alibi was no good. 

Nor was there any reasonable expectation of better things 
to be expressed by the new generation. Bobby was a lovable 
youngster, to be sure. Nicholas rejoiced in his ready wit, 
his winning smile, his unfailing consideration of his grand- 
father’s moods, but he gave no promise of success. Beyond 
the fact that he played the piano like a professional artist, 
possessed an unusual capacity for making and retaining 
friendships, and had contrived to finish his college course, 
Bobby held out no encouragement that he would ever do 
anything worth a thought. He would drive and drink, 
gamble and golf, hunt and fish, marry some dizzy, dis- 
sipated, scarlet-lipped little flapper and tire of her; he 
would summer in Canada, winter in Cannes, clip his 
coupons, confer with his tailor, subsidize the symphony 


68 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


orchestra, appear on the stationery of a few charities and 
on the platform when the Republican candidate for Presi- 
dent came to town; and, ultimately, be pushed into a crypt 
in the big, echoing, gothic mausoleum alongside Clifford, 
the waster. 

Oh, there had been an occasional ray of hope; a mere 
phosphorescence; just enough to make the darkness a little 
more dense when the flash was over. 

On the last day of his grandson’s senior year . ... it was 
a mid-year class, with ceremonies deferred until commence- 
ment . . . Nicholas had driven over to the little city of the 
State University, lunching with his old-time friend, the 
head of the Department of Chemistry. He had straightened 
and beamed when Professor Garland said, “‘ I don’t know 
whether you’re aware of it, Merrick, but that wild young 
cub of yours has the making of a chemist.” 

“Honest? Speak to him about it; won’t you, Garland? 
It would mean more — coming from you! a 

Garland had made a lengthy rite of mixing his tea and 
hot water before replying, “‘ Chemistry’s hard work, old 
chap! Your boy knows he doesn’t have to work! ” 

And when Nicholas’ face fell, Garland added, consolingly, 
“You can’t blame him. Why should he put on a rubber 
apron and puddle in nasty stews and noxious stinks when 
he can get some joy out of life.” 


PINS: 


Tonight a great weight had been lifted from old Nicholas. 
He had not been prepared for the news of his good fortune, 
and though his spirit sang, his sagging shoulders testified to 
the gravity of the load he had now thrown off. He laid a 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 69 


brown, parchment-colored hand affectionately on Bobby’s 
arm, and together they sauntered from the dining-room 
into the spacious library. This was the old man’s sanctuary. 
The walls were covered, literally from walnut-beamed ceil- 
ing to Chinese rug, with cases filled with unexcelled and 
unexplored classic literature. The mental pabulum on 
which Nicholas fed, these days, consisted for the most part 
of mystery stories strangely alike in plot and technique. It 
was not that Nicholas had no mind for better reading. It 
was only that he was tired of thinking. 

They strolled into*the library, and the weary old fellow 
sank with a sigh into the depths of his favorite chair. A 
gaudy-jacketed detective story lay, face downward, on the 
table. Bobby took it up, read its title aloud, and grinned. 

“‘ Light, Grandpére? ” 

He offered a flame at the tip of the old man’s cigar. 

“ Exciting yarn? ” 

Nicholas puffed energetically for a moment, like a leaky 
bellows, and replied, “‘ The inspector is just questioning the 
cook, Bobby, and she says she knows the shot was fired at 
exactly eleven-ten, because that is the time she always puts 
out the cat.” 

“You should be pretty well acquainted with the kitchen 
habits of that cook, by this time, Grandpére. It’s the same 
one, isn’t it, in all these stories? ”’ 

“‘ By no means, sir,” protested Nicholas. ‘ The last cook 
was a man!” 

Bobby was restless to be by himself and eager to divert his 
grandfather to his novel so that he might escape. The emo- 
tional strain of the past hour had been decidedly wearing. 
The confidence he had extended to the old man represented 
many days of serious thought; and nights too when he had 


70 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


paced his room for hours considering his tentative decision 
from ‘every possible angle of objection. Now that he had 
resolved upon his course, it was only fair that he should in- ° 
form his grandfather. He had done so. He had made a 
conscious effort to avoid a dramatic moment. He hated 
scenes; he had been brought up on them. But old Nicholas 
had passed through quite too much despair and anxiety not 
to be raised to an exalted mood by the young fellow’s calm 
announcement of a program committing him to a task at 
once expensively sacrificial and, as to duration, interminable. 

For a moment, after Bobby had flung out the words, the 
old man had sat stupified and incredulous. He had put 
down his fork. His jaw sagged and his chin chopped up 
and down as in a shaking palsy. The deep wrinkles about 
his mouth had joined the wrinkles about his eyes, in a 
series of half-circles, as he peered across the table. He dug 
his gnarled old fingers into the snowy cloth, rested his weight 
on his elbows and demanded, in a rasping treble, “‘ How’s 
that, Robert? I don’t believe I caught what you just said! 
Say that again! ” 

Bobby had said it again, slowly, calmly, convincingly. Old 
Nicholas’ seamed face twitched, and he rubbed the corners 
of his cavernous eyes with the back of his mottled hand. 

*““ You are a brave boy! ” he said, his voice breaking. 

Then, ashamed of his weakness, he violently cleared his 
throat, straightened his back, and declared with dignity, “ I 
congratulate you, sir! I cannot remember when any mem- 
ber of my tribe has made a decision of greater moment than 
yours! May God —bless you!” The benediction was 
spoken with a quaver. ... It was almost too much for 
both of them. 

For an hour thereafter, Bobby had outlined his future 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 71 


plans with a breadth of scope and clarity of detail certifying 
to the vast amount of time and thought he had spent on 
them, the old man following every word with eager nods of 
his leonine head, and occasional hard bangings of his fist 
upon the table to emphasize his approval. “‘ Yes, sir,’ he 
would shout, tumultuously, “ you can do it! You will do 
it! You have it in you! I always thought you had!” His 
mood was reminiscent of the good old days when it required 
a deal of table-pounding to convince the directors that a 
radical and immediate change of policy was necessary to 
meet new conditions, no matter what it cost. 

Now that the first tidal wave of enthusiasm had broken 
and surfed, Bobby wanted the subject temporarily dismissed. 
He had lived with his problem — eaten it, dreamed it, walked 
the floor with it, gone to the mat with it, cajoled it, cursed it, 
for a month; and, having now brought it to somctbias like 
a climax, he was ready to see it tabled. 

Sensing his grandson’s restlessness as he stood toying with 
a paper-weight, Nicholas deliberately located his place in 
the book, meticulously polished his glasses, and smiled a 
very obvious adieu. 

* Think [ll step out for a little stroll, if you are to be 
reading, Grandpére,”’ said Bobby. 

Nicholas nodded several times; puffed noisily, con- 
tentedly; buried himself in his story. 

Immediately Bobby’s back was turned, however, he put 
down the book and stared after the receding figure, his old 
eyes wide with a new interest to which he had not yet be- 
come accustomed. Bobby looked back, as he passed through 
the doorway, and grinned. Nicholas,caught up his book, 
frowned heavily over some abstruse passage he had just 
come upon, and puffed mightily on his long cigar. 


72 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


OS 


Changing his pumps for tennis shoes and his dinner coat 
for a light sweater, Bobby let himself out through the car- 
riage door, upon the driveway. There was a half moon in 
an unclouded sky and a few fireflies. He trudged aimlessly 
on the drive, left it for the grass, wandered along the narrow 
path by the rose arbor, found himself near the huge twin 
pillars of the gate, strolled out upon the highway. It was 
not a busy thoroughfare, but a narrow, graveled motor-road 
serving chiefly the widely-spaced country estates fronting on 
the western shore of the lake. 

It was very quiet tonight. Hands in pockets, head tilted 
forward in moody meditation, he strode along indifferent to 
his random journey, his eyes becoming accommodated to 
the gloom. 

He was glad he had told his grandfather. Tomorrow he 
would drive down to Brightwood and tell Nancy Ashford. 
It was like having strong anchors to windward that these two 
people should share his secret. He hoped Nancy Ashford 
would be content to say, “ Very proper! Much as I ex- 
pected! ” and let it go at that. He wasn’t much of a success 
in moments crammed with sentimentality. It was all right 
in the case.of Grandpére, of course. He was an old man, 
and a bit mellow. But he hoped Nancy would be sensible. 

Bobby had walked a mile. A hundred yards ahead of 
him, at a sharp bend of the road, a pair of glaring head- 
lights tilted at a precarious angle indicated that a car had 
listed heavily to starboard. . .. Inthe ditch, he surmised. 
He heard the sudden churning of the motor, as power was 
violently applied to impotent wheels. ‘‘ Green driver,” he 
reflected. Again the roar of the straining motor proclaimed 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 73 


that somebody was making a bad matter no better. ‘“ Fool! ” 
he muttered; and quickened his steps. 

Evidently the driver had sighted him, and, unsure of his 
intentions, was making a final effort at extrication before he 
reached the car; for, as he came within a few feet of it, the 
engine fairly bellowed with exasperation and the big coupé 
shuddered. There was a young woman at the wheel. 

“* My God, sister,” shouted Bobby, when the racket had 
subsided, “‘ don’t do that any more! ” 

Sister accepted the admonition with wide eyes into which 
Bobby now gazed interestedly at close range. She smiled, 
and he reconsidered his earlier opinion of her. She was 
probably unaccustomed to driving in soft gravel; unac- 
quainted with its treacheries; might be a most excellent 
driver almost anywhere else. 

“Is it really down very deep? ” she inquired, with anxiety. 

There was a curious huskiness in her voice that gave it an 
intimate, just-between-us, confidential timbre. 

Bobby walked to the rear and looked. 

* Very!” he declared. ‘‘ To the hub. Your differential 
is flat on the ground.” 

Her face was perplexed. 

*T don’t know what that is,” she admitted, “ but ’'m 
sure it shouldn’t be.” 

“No,” said Bobby paternally, “‘ they do better when 
they’re up off the road.” 

She sighed, and dabbed at a warm neck with a trifle 
of lace. 

** It’s my fault, I suppose,” ruefully, ‘‘ I was driving rather 
fast; and at that sharp turn a car came whopping toward 
me with the sort of lights they use on aviation fields. I 
turned out, slipped off... ” 


74. MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


“And here you are!” finished Bobby. ‘“‘ Lucky you 
didn’t upset. You might have been badly hurt.” 

She searched his shadowed face, slightly stirred by the 
note of concern for her safety . . . might be safer without 
it. What she saw caused her no anxiety. 

“Well, at least we have no broken bones to worry about. 
All I have to do now is to get this car back on the road. 
Anything to suggest? I’m awfully helpless about such 
things. Not meaning,” she added quickly, “ that I’m in the 
habit of ditching my car.” 

“ [’m sure you're not,”’ said Bobby encouragingly. ‘‘ This 
gravel is very slippery.” 

‘What do you think I’d better do? ” she asked, in a tone 
that quite relinquished all further responsibility into his hands. 

It was as if she had leaned her slight weight against him. 
For the past half hour, he had been thinking himself the 
loneliest, most utterly detached person on earth. His im- 
portant resolution had quite cut him off from his habitual 
round of interests, but had not yet keyed him on to any new 
ones. Nobody had ever been so desperately in need of 
friendship. 

He rested an elbow on the ledge of the open window and 
became whimsically didactic. 

“* In cases like this, when the local power-plant has proved 
insufficient, it is customary to seek aid. One calls in the 
neighbors. They, having suspected all along that their 
services might be required, have gone early to bed, and 
must be pounded out with loud noisés and the offer of a 
king’s ransom. Having bathed, shaved, dressed and break- 
fasted, they come, growling, with a snorting tractor... ” 

“* And when they are all ready to pull, the tow-line breaks, 
and they must drive the tractor to town for another.” 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 75 


** Something like that,” agreed Bobby. 

*“* Your advice seems clear,” she said, matching his mood. 
“ First, one goes for the neighbors.” She tallied the item 
on her fingers. “ But which one? ” 

“Which one of the neighbors? ” Bobby countered with 
a chuckle. ‘“‘ Or which one of us? . .. TIl go, of course, 
gladly. But,’? he added commandingly, “ you’re coming 
along! I won’t have you out here alone in a stalled car! ” 

It was spoken spontaneously. Doubtless it meant nothing 
more than an unintentionally peremptory way of saying he 
considered it unsafe for her to be left by herself on this un- 
frequented road. But the fervent phrasing of it, the implied 
possessorship he had put into his ‘‘ I won’t have you out here 
alone” brought her a queer sensation. Nobody had ever 
used precisely that tone with her before. She felt . . . well 

. as if she were being absorbed . . . ever so little . 

just the tiniest mite of her; like the first almost invisible 
trickle of fine sand pouring through the needle-slim neck of 
an hour-glass; nothing to be alarmed about, surely. She 
could easily enough reverse the glass, whenever she wished. 
For the moment, it was not unpleasant to let it run; just for 
the novelty of it. It wouldn’t be much. She would see to 
that. In a half hour, she and this delightful chap, with a 
clean-cut profile that might have graced a Grecian coin, 
would go their ways. If it pleased him to issue orders, she 
would humor him by coming to attention and clicking her 
heels. 

Bobby opened the door and offered his hand. She took 
it without hesitation and stepped out upon the road. 

“ Should I have locked the gears? ” she asked. 

“No,” drawled Bobby, “it'll be here when we come 
back.” They both laughed. 


76 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


Leaving the highway, they entered a thickly-hedged 
narrow lane, cut through a dense tract of tall firs. 

“IT hope you know where we’re going,” she said, as 
Bobby strode forward. 

“Can’t say that I do,” he confessed. ‘I never was in 
here before; but I think it must be the private road to the 
Foster estate. Doubtless we will find one of the farmers’ 
cottages presently.” 

The girl trudged along beside him, taking two steps to 
his one on high heels not meant for hiking in country lanes. 
A sheep scuttled out of the left hedge and dashed frantically 
across the road, a few feet ahead of them. Instinctively she 
caught at Bobby’s sleeve. 

“‘ Oh — but that startled me! ” 

** Here! Take my hand!” 

It was a small hand that she gave him, and he held it as 
if he were leading a little child. Absurd as he was bound 
to admit it, his attitude toward her was proprietary; and, 
incautious as she knew it to be, her response to it was spon- 
taneous. She had a sensation that just the smallest imagi- 
nable emanation of herself was being quietly assimilated by 
the strong fingers of this dominating boy. 

Mentally, Bobby tightened his grip; physically, he led 
her as one would a younger sister. 

“We might encounter all sorts of adventures,” she sug- 
gested. “Suppose we ran into a nest of—of counter- 
feiters! ”” 

“There aren’t any counterfeiters, any more,” scoffed 
Bobby. “ They’re all bootlegging. . . . More profits and 
less risk.”? 

“Oh — how I hate it! ” she cried, passionately. ‘‘ What 
a vulgar, beastly thing it’s come to be! It never concerned 


99 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 77 


me, one way or the other, until lately. But now. . . it’s 
destroying my best friend! ” 

Bobby was annoyed at his sudden stab of jealousy. But 
what right had he to be jealous? 

*“*T have good reason to hate it too,” he rejoined bitterly; 
adding, with a growl, “ but I believe I’ve got it licked! ” 

“* Oh, I hope so! ”’ she exclaimed, with a quick intake of 
breath. “It would be sucha pity... ” 

Her sentence hung suspended, and for some time neither 
spoke. 

“That’s the first time anybody ever said to me that it 
would be — a pity.” 

So — the time had come now to reverse the glass. She 
would do it at once . . . presently . . . but not abruptly. 
. . . How did one up-end an hour-glass gradually, im- 
perceptibly, she wondered. Perhaps the proper technique 
would occur to her. ... Meantime . . . the silence was 
lengthening; and silence, at this juncture, was disturbing. 

“You knew it — without being told, didn’t you? ” 

“I’m not sure that I did. It wouldn’t have mattered 
much to anybody.” 


*“* How silly! . . . No one concerned whether you fling 
yourself away? ”’ 
“That did sound melodramatic, didn’t it? ... as if I 


wanted to play Orphan Annie.” 
*“ You’ve been rather — down, haven’t you?”’ Careful! 


. careful! ... The glass couldn’t be up-ended by any 
such process as this! 
“ Horribly! ... But— I’m not now!” 
“'That’s good! ... Fresh grip? ” 


Neither of them knew just why there was a momentary 
tightening of their hand-clasp. Naturally, the word sug- 


78 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


gested it. The sudden pressure of his fingers about her 
hand was but an affirmative; perhaps an acknowledgment 
of her encouragement. And her quick response was a mere 
friendly vote of confidence to a fellow human, who had been 
down and was now on the way up. But each was aware — 
and intuitively conscious that the other was aware — of a 
compact; a curiously indefinable sense of belonging. .. . 
She released her hand, a moment later, and instantly 
realized it was the wrong thing to have done. ... The 
withdrawal only seemed to be a retreat after an avowal. . . . 
More than that, it hadn’t come about nearly so casually as it 
should. Her fingers had slipped slowly out of his hand, de- 
tained ever so slightly by his lingering pressure. ... So, 
she had turned the glass, had she? . . . 

“* Oh, I see a light!” she cried. “ In a window! ” 

With droll predictions of the manner of welcome they 
might receive, they quickened their steps, and presently 
knocked at the door. A farmer opened it and stood framed 
in the glow of an acetylene lamp suspended from the ceiling. 
Two small children hugged a leg apiece, registering curiosity. 

After a brief parley, the man retreated for his cap, joined 
the pair outside, told them he would be along soon, and 
went for his tractor. 

Bobby made no attempt to resume the conversation in- 
terrupted by the sighting of the cottage. He took his new 
friend’s small hand, however, as they turned to retrace their 
steps,.and tucked it under his arm. -She gave it without 
shyness. 

“You'll be going back to college, I expect,” he hazarded. 

“No, not this year. . . . And you?” 

“Oh, I’m through,” said Bobby maturely. ‘“‘ Beginning 
my professional course in a few days.” 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 79 


* Law — maybe?” 

** Is that what you would pick for me? ” 

She laughed. 

“TI think I should know a bit more about you before I 
selected your profession.” 

“Well... ..if youswwere aman... 

**T should go in for surgery.” 

** Any special kind? ” 

“Yes,” she replied, with quick decision, “I would be a 
brain surgeon.” 

* That’s odd! ” 

“ce Why? be) 

Her question went unanswered. The noisy tractor was 
overtaking them. They were near the highway, and con- 
versation gave way to the business at hand. 

After much maneuvering into position, the farmer was 
ready. Bobby took the wheel of the coupé, its owner wait- 
ing at a discreet distance until the car should be tugged 
back upon the road. It was simply done, but the emergency 
driver of the coupé stammered something about the possi- 
bility that the steering apparatus might be in need of in- 
spection. Sometimes a strain like this affected the steering 
gear, he said. He was not pressed for specific explanations. 
Perhaps, he suggested, it would be best to run down to the 
village and make sure everything was safe. He would gladly 
go with her if she wished. . . . It was quite agreeable to 
her, if he would beso good, and would he mind driving? . . . 
Under the circumstances, perhaps that would be better. 

She asked the farmer for his charges and paid him more 
than he asked. He thanked her, awkwardly, feigning re- 
luctance to accept so much. As she entered the car where 
Bobby sat at the wheel in proprietorial pose, his heart beat- 


Ee) 


80 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


ing rapidly, the farmer, eager to be friendly, said, ‘‘ That 
sure is one peach of a car! It looks just like the Packard 
that Doctor Hudson used to drive around up here.” 

“Tt is,” said the girl quietly. ‘“‘ Good-night; and thank 
you again.” 

Mechanically, Bobby Merrick put the late Doctor Hud- 
son’s big coupé in gear, and they were off toward the 
village. 

“Tt seems all right, doesn’t it?’ happily remarked the 
young woman in black who owned the big coupé that 
Doctor Hudson used to drive around up here. 

Apparently, her new friend was not yet quite sure enough 
to reply. His eyes were intent upon the road ahead, and he 
grasped the wheel so tightly his knuckles were white. 

Bobby was stirringly conscious of her on the seat beside 
him, more conscious of her than he had ever been of any 
woman he had known. There was no actual, physical con- 
tact; but she was most overpoweringly there. 

“ Tt’s all right,” he muttered thickly. 

“* T was on my way to the village, anyhow,” she continued. 
“I do hope the little drug store will still be open.” 

Apparently her driver was not posted on the nocturnal 
habits of the druggist, for he did not venture an opinion. 
The accelerator received an extra pressure at that moment, 
and the powerful car suddenly bounded forward. 

“T can’t tell you how grateful I am,” said the girl, a bit 
perplexed by his silence. “* I’m sure I shouldn’t have known 
what to do, if you hadn’t happened along.” 

Bobby was occupied with the adjustment of the ignition 
lever. 

“ But I’m afraid I’m putting you to a great deal of in- 
convenience,” she added anxiously. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 81 


He spoke, at length, as from a considerable distance. 

“The car is in perfect condition,” he said. ‘ Ill get out 
here. You need not go to the garage.’ The brakes were 
applied with determination, and the car came to an abrupt 
stop. Bobby opened the door on the left and stepped out. 

“Oh, but you’re miles from where you found me!” she 
exclaimed. ‘‘ Do let me put you down where you’d rather 
be. Please!” 

He could not meet her eyes. 

““T was just sauntering,’ he said absently. “It’s no 
matter.” 

She slipped over behind the wheel and held out her hand. 
It trembled a little as he wrapped his fingers around it. She 
was bewildered. Whatever had she said to hurt him? 

* Good-night, then; and thank you so much!” Her 
voice was unsteady. 

He retained her hand for an instant, said ‘‘ Good-night ” 
in a tone that might mean weariness, dejection, or dis- 
appointment, turned, and stepped away into the darkness. 
She engaged the gears. The car moved slowly, tentatively, 
hesitatingly forward. 

Bobby watched the little red tail-light until it vanished at 
the next turn. 

A half hour later, he sat down at his piano in the tomby 
drawing-room at Windymere, and, vastly occupied with his 
reflections, toyed with an experimental ending to Schubert’s 
* Unfinished Symphony.” 


Vv 


I: WAS LATE AFTERNOON OF THE LAST SUNDAY IN SEPTEM- 
ber. Nancy Ashford’s snug retreat, immediately adjacent 
to the general administrative offices in Brightwood Hos- 
pital, had proved too small to house the radiant spirits of 
herself and her guest. She had gratefully accepted Bobby’s 
suggestion that they take a drive. Sitting close to him in 
the big, gaudy, rakish roadster, her elbow touching his, it 
pleased Nancy to indulge the fancy that passers-by might 
think him her son. Her life had been filled and emptied 
twice. It was brimming again. 

Nothing could have been more clear to the white-haired 
hospital superintendent, as she greeted her expected visitor, 
at the door of her little office, that afternoon, than that he 
was hopeful of stating his errand in a manner to insure 
against its reception with surprise or emotion. He had a 
very business-like air, and she determined to match it. 

He had blurted out his story immediately upon arrival. 
Tossing his hat upon her desk, and seating himself by her 
on the little divan, he had said brusquely, ‘“‘ Well, I’m re- 
solved to do it. It will be no surprise to you; for it was 
really your idea in the first place, even if you didn’t specify 
the details. It’s all arranged now. I am entering the 
Medical School at the University, a week from Thursday. 
. . . Are you glad? ” 

Nancy had reached out a hand for his, winked back the 
sudden tears. and bit her lip in an effort at control. Her 
eyes shone. But she did not speak. 

““ Of course,” continued Bobby hurriedly, as if reciting 


lines, “‘ I have no illusions in this matter. It means a long, 
82 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 83 


hard grind of drudgery, and I am not naturally industrious. 
It will be five years, at least, before I can even guess whether 
I am likely to succeed, or have only been making myself 
ridiculous. I take chances of becoming an obscure second- 
rater. In that case, I shall have become merely absurd at 
the cost of a very great deal of time and trouble. People 
would grin. They would say — I can hear them — ‘ Yeah; 
he’s the fellow that thought he’d be another Doctor Hudson.’ 
But maybe the threat of that will put a little more fight into 
me. It’s foolish, I suppose, to hope that I might sometime 
be even a halfway substitute for him; but —I can move 
in that direction, anyway.” 

“I felt confident you would come to some such decision 
as this, Bobby,’? commented Nancy quietly, “and I feel 
even more sure — now you have decided — that you will 
succeed.” 

“Your hope will help — a lot!” 

*““ Now you will be wanting to learn all you can find out 
about Doctor Hudson, won’t you? ” 


o S 


At that juncture, the tiny office had seemed stifling. 
They would ride. Bobby would drive and listen; Nancy 
would do the talking. For fully twenty miles they had been 
weaving swiftly in and out of the Sunday traffic on crowded 
boulevards; and now, with speed reduced, were traversing 
a more quiet suburban street. Nancy had been recalling 
some of the more singular facts in the life of her hero, 
especially relating to his wide diversity. of philanthropic in- 
terests and his odd whim of keeping them a secret. 

** Did his family know? ” 


84. MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


**T doubt it. Joyce was a mere baby when he began 
doing these queer things for people, and it is unlikely that 
he ever told her. And Mrs. Hudson, during a call she made 
at the hospital only last Thursday, asked some questions 
indicating he had not confided that feature of his life to 
her. Many of his wards and beneficiaries have been coming 
to see her with expressions of sympathy, and some with 
proffers of assistance if she needed it. She was naturally 
curious.” 

“Yes; I know just a little about that. Learned it only 
today. Tom Masterson dropped in, as I was preparing to 
leave Windymere, at noon. He had driven Joyce up to the 
Hudson cottage, where Mrs. Hudson is spending a few days. 
He came over to inquire if I would join them there for the 
afternoon. I told him of my engagement in town.” 

“Perhaps you should have gone. You could have tele- 
phoned to me. Have you seen Joyce, at all? ” 

“* Not since I’m back from France.” 

** And I presume you never met Mrs. Hudson.” 

Bobby wished that question had not been raised. Per- 
haps it would be near enough the truth to reply in the 
negative. On second thought, absolute sincerity with Nancy 
Ashford was but her rightful due. He decided to be honest. 

“Yes,” he answered, reluctantly, ‘‘ I spent a whole hour 
with her last night, on a country road ” — ae after a 
considerable pause, “‘ But she doesn’t know it.” 

“* Meaning what? ” demanded Nancy, in amazement. 

Briefly he narrated the whole circumstance of their meet- 
ing. Nancy Ashford’s blue eyes widened. Underneath the 
boyish recital ran a strong current of unmistakable personal 
interest which Bobby’s attempted tone of casualness failed to 
conceal. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 85 


*T think you liked her, Bobby. Didn’t you? ” 

He essayed a smile of indifference. He might even have 
been able to delude himself into the belief that Nancy ac- 
cepted the smile as a sufficient answer to her query, had he 
not been so audacious with his little deceit as to look her 
full in the face. What he saw there of incredulity and dis- 
appointment instantly sobered him. There was no use 
trying to keep anything from this woman. 

““ My dear,”’ he confessed, with an unsteady voice, “I 
like her so much I’d rather we didn’t talk about it.” 

His big car had idled to a full stop alongside the curb 
flanking a little park. They were both silent for a while. 
At length, Nancy said mechanically, “‘ Well, of all things! ” 

“ Yes,”’ agreed Bobby abstractedly, “‘ something like that.” 

There was another protracted pause. 

** And she did not know who you were? ” 

**T couldn’t tell her.” 

“How long do you think you can maintain your — in- 


cognito? ”’ 
“‘ Oh, that should be simple enough,” Bobby declared, in 
a tone of self-deprecation. “I took pains to invent an alibi 


for the evening, when I talked to Masterson, in case some 
inquiries might be made. But Mrs. Hudson has probably 
forgotten all about the little episode by this time.” 

Nancy laughed. 

“Bobby Merrick, do you really believe that a young 
woman of Helen Hudson’s temperament could produce the 
impression she made on you without being fully aware of it? 
You confessed how acutely conscious you were of her — 
that was your phrase, wasn’t it? — as you sat together in 
her car. Do you think you would have had that sensation 
had she not shared it? ” 


86 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


** Of course; why not? See here — you’re taking alto- 
gether too much for granted in this case. Mrs. Hudson was 
no more than courteous, friendly, appreciative of a little 
favor. She had no reason to think me interested in her. In 
fact, I was almost rude to her when we parted.” He did 
not feel it necessary to add that her car had crept along, in 
low gear, for fully two hundred yards, apparently reluctant 
to leave. 

“* Yes,”’ said Nancy significantly, ‘‘ she would notice that 

“‘ And she would know — by my abruptness — wouldn’t 
she? ane 

““ Know what? ” persisted Nancy ruthlessly. 

“‘ Why — that I was not interested.” 

** Dear boy, how very little you know about her! ” 

“* Meaning that she has unusual gifts for interpreting other 
people’s private thoughts? ” 

““No — Foolish! Meaning only that she is a woman! ” 

They strolled under the elms, stopping to watch some 
small boys sailing toy boats on the little lagoon, dappled 
with lily-pads. A bench was found unoccupied. By com- 
mon consent, their discussion was resumed of Doctor 
Hudson’s queer penchant for concerning himself with the 
private perplexities of nobody knew how many people, and 
the thick wall of secrecy with which these strange negoti- 
ations were surrounded. 


399 
! 


Cee he 


“You may as well put it down as a fact,”? Nancy was 
saying, with strong conviction, ‘‘ that the curious manner of 
Wayne Hudson’s costly investments in these cases, from 
which he never expected or accepted any reimbursement, 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 87 


was occasioned by no mere whim. He was not given to 
whims. He was not an eccentric. I never knew him to do 
anything without an adequate motive. Nobody could have 
said that he was reckless with his money or incompetent in 
business. He could drive a shrewd bargain. He knew when 
to buy and when to sell. Plenty of business men, with more 
commercial experience, asked his advice on probable trends 
in the real estate market and took his judgment about in- 
dustrial stocks. I am convinced he did these strange things 
for certain people, in this furtive way, with a definite motive. 
In some fashion, which I don’t pretend to understand, his 
professional success was involved in it. When you find out 
what that motive was, you’ll know why Wayne Hudson was 
a great surgeon! ”’ 

“Do you know any more about it than you have told 
me? ” regarding her searchingly. 

“There is a little book — a sort of journal — I think you 
have a right to know about it. He kept it in the office safe, 
along with valuable records; some relating to professional 
matters, some to private business affairs. The book was 
there when I took over the management of Brightwood. 
Once — we were looking for some insurance papers — I 
asked Doctor Hudson whether the little book concerned 
hospital business. . . . ” 

“ Couldn’t you tell?” interrupted Bobby. 

“Tt was not written in English, nor in any other language 
I ever saw.” 

“What did it look like — Spanish, German, Greek? ” 

She shook her head, and resumed her story. 

*“ T asked him what the little book was. I vividly remem- 
ber how earnestly thoughtful he grew, and how he stood, for 
many minutes, rubbing his temple with the tips of his fingers 


88 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


—a trick of his when trying to arrive at an important de- 
cision — saying, after a long wait, ‘It’s just a personal 
record.’ And then he added, smiling, ‘ You are at liberty to _ 
read it, if you can.’ ” 

** Did you ever try?” 

“* Did I?” she echoed. ‘‘ Hours and hours — lately.” 

“* Get anything out of it? ”” 

“ Headache! ” 

““T wish I could see it!” 

*“* T’ll show it to you! Nobody has a better right to it. I 
told Mrs. Hudson there were many valuable documents of 
the doctor’s in the hospital safe, and she insisted that we 
keep them until she was up to looking them over with me; 
so the book is still there.” 

** Let’s go back,” he said impetuously. 

Darkness had fallen before they arrived at Brightwood. 
Nancy brought the book from the safe, and laid it on the 
desk before him. He sat down, and took it in his hands — 
a plain, black, leather-bound journal, eight inches by five, 
and more than an inch thick. On the fly-leaf was written, 
in Doctor Hudson’s quite distinctive hand, the single 
sentence 


TO WHOM THIS MAY CONCERN 

“Nobody could be any more concerned than I am!” 
He glanced up at Nancy for approval. She nodded. 

“Now, turn over to the next page, and see what you 
make of that! ” 

Bobby stared long and hard. 

“It’s in code! *? 

“You will find it difficult,” said. Nancy. ‘“ The way I 
have it figured is this: Doctor Hudson purposed not to have 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 89 


the matters which he kept secret divulged during his life- 
time. The fact that so many of these odd wards of his are 
bobbing up now, ready to tell their stories of his strange 
dealings with them, convinces me that they were all vir- 
tually sworn to secrecy while he lived. Now that he is gone, 
they tell. I think the mystery is all contained in this book. 
Whoever reads it, knows the real story. Perhaps the doctor 
was willing it should be known after he was done with it; 
but made it inaccessible to anyone who might chance upon 
it while he lived.” 

“ He’s made it inaccessible enough — I’ll say!”” Bobby 
growled. ‘‘ Did you ever see the like? ” 

“ This first page,’ explained Nancy, “is unquestionably 
a sort of preface. You notice that all the other pages are 
completely filled. This one has only ten lines. It must be 
a foreword; an explanation; dedication, perhaps... . 
You take it along with you. . . . Know any Greek? ” 

Bobby shook his head. 

** Oh, I know the alphabet,” he qualified, smiling. 

** That’s enough. . . . What’s the last letter? ” 

*“ Omega,”’ recited Bobby glibly. 

*“* And omega is a sort of stop-signal, isn’t it? A sign for 
the end of something? ”’ 

He nodded. 

*“* How many letters are there in the Greek alphabet? ” 

Bobby closed his eyes and counted on his fingers. 

“Twenty-four.” 

“ Omega being the twenty-fourth — and signifiying the 
end!” 

“ Right! ” 

““ Now, what is the twelfth letter? ”’ 

“Mu,” answered Bobby, after another calculation. 


go MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


“* Well, if omega means ‘ finished,’ what do you suppose 
mu means? ” 

** * Half finished ’ — I suppose.” 

Bobby soberly returned to the preface of the little book 
and found, at almost regular intervals, the letters p (mu) 
and w (omega). 

“Ts that a clue? ” 

“TI think so,” said Nancy, “‘ but it did me no good. I 
just offer it to you for what it seems to be worth.” 


oe S 


Not at any given moment of his long drive home did 
Bobby Merrick realize exactly where he was, as he swiftly 
covered the familiar road to Windymere. At midnight, he 
put up his car; went to his room; sat down before his desk, 
with Doctor Hudson’s private journal, a pencil, and a thick 
pad of paper; and at dawn was still experimenting with- 
out a glimmer of encouragement. 

Meggs, opening the door to call him to breakfast, found 
him sitting fully dressed, with his head on his arms, asleep, 
and tip-toed down-stairs, his eyes shining. 

A few minutes later he whispered to the cook, in a tone 
of victory,“‘ You lost your bet! ” 

“ Drunk again? ” 

‘ Ounitel?? 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION g! 
Facsimile of first page of the Hudson journal 
red wo Uday V¥ UW 
NVC Mekerr Cie 


Wes 
se yt PS ect 


Mye2~ W 


VI 


ie GLOWING ELLIPSE CAST BY THE HEAVILY SHADED 
lamp at the head of her bed shone upon the weapons 
with which young Mrs. Hudson had armed herself against 
drowsiness when, at midnight, she had retired with a novel, 
two magazines, and a leather writing-case embarrassingly 
stuffed with unanswered letters, resolved to stay awake 
until Joyce returned. 

Shortly before two, she had lost the battle and now slept 
with the light shining into her troubled face. Not that the 
trifling incident of dropping off could have worried her; 
but it was all of a piece with the general failure. 

Had the late Doctor Hudson been subpcenaed to the 
witness-box on the day of his death to report on the success 
of the marriage he had contracted on behalf of his daughter, 
he, being unusually fastidious about truth-telling, might 
have found it an awkward question. 

The three of them had stood up, that crisp January 
morning at St. Andrew’s, in the presence of Uncle Percival 
and Monty — and the Senator Byrnes, who had run over 
from Washington — not so much as a bride and groom, 
attended by a grown daughter, cordially consenting; rather 
as a pair of strikingly lovely young women, attended by an 
elderly, distinguished guardian, invoking Church and State 
to legalize and bless their comradeship and give them a 
deed to it. 

That it was candidly a mariage de convenance (the French 
for it was more euphonious than the English equivalent) 
caused Doctor Hudson no serious misgivings. He nursed no 
illusions on that subject, aware that if all the world’s wed- 

g2 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 93 


dings were limited to romantic attachments in which no 
material advantages were at issue on either side, the human 
race would long since have been exterminated; and that if 
it were unethical for a young woman to marry with the 
knowledge that she could not immediately give herself with 
unqualified devotion to her husband, the Holy Virgin her- 
self was at fault. 

Immediately upon the consummation of his wedding, how- 
ever, Doctor Hudson had found himself falling sincerely in 
love with his girl-bride, and the comradeship he had sought 
to insure between Helen and Joyce was put in jeopardy. 

Joyce was a poor sailor, and the first three days were rough. 

“No, darling; not a thing. . . . Please run along. I'd 
much rather you did.” 

So when, on Sunday noon, she had been persuaded to 
-come down to the blanketed chair they had prepared for 
her on B-Deck, she realized that she was being solicitously 
attended, on either side, not by an indulgent father and a 
devoted college chum, but by a man and his wife — good 
friends of hers, unquestionably, but, well — there you were! 

All three of them tried to twist the contemplated relation- 
ship back into focus, but it wouldn’t go. Perhaps their very 
efforts to do so made it impossible. Hudson, in Paris, had 
enthusiastically encouraged Joyce in her shopping extrava- 
gances; and Helen, eager to join in her husband’s approval, 
may have overdone it. 

“‘ What an exquisite coat! So glad you found it, Joyce! 
How very becoming! ” 

It was the right attitude, without a doubt, but it hadn’t 
the right inflection. It wasn’t as one girl to another, but as 
an ingratiating step-mother over-anxious to be generous, 
affectionate. 


94 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


There were no disagreements. Perhaps it might have 
cleared the air if there had been. Nor was there any con- 
straint on the surface. It was too deep to come to the sur- | 
face. That was the difficulty. Everything they said to each 
other was amplified — as through a loud speaker — intensi- 
fying their mutual assurances of devotion until it took on a 
tone of unreality. Each knew the other was trying hard to 
be natural. Each knew the other was playing a difficult 
part. Almost desperately, they scrambled for the old posi- 
tion; but they had lost the way to it. 

Shortly after the death of Doctor Hudson, the distance 
between them increased markedly. For the first few days, 
they had clung to each other with a rededicated bond that 
promised to be, if not a restoration of their earlier comrade- 
ship, at least an earnest of future indispensability . . . pos- 
sibly to become a more valuable relation than any they had 
heretofore sustained. But it was not for long. 

Joyce’s grief, inconsolable for a week, quickly exhausted 
itself. It was only common honesty in her when she de- 
clared one day that she wasn’t going to sit moping any 
longer, for, volatile as she was, any protracted mourning 
would have been mere affectation, even it she were capable 
of it, which was doubtful. 

Presently. there came a disquieting furtiveness in her ex- 
planation of late hours. Helen’s gently tactful queries, im- 
plying an uneasiness about her social program, were either 
dismissed lightly with a chaffing reply, or met with a brief — 
albeit friendly — hint that one was quite old enough now 
to know where one wanted to go, and with whom, and 
until when. She was not to trouble her pretty head about 
her flighty Joyce. She was to live her own life and stop 
worrying about trifles. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 95 


“Don’t sit up, darling!’ Joyce would protest, at nine. 
“T’m going out with Ned.” (Or Tom, or Pat, or Phil.) 
“We may be late, you know. Where? Oh—I’m not 


sure . . . to dance, some place, I suppose . . . and a bite 
of supper, later . . . Crystal Palace, maybe . . . Gordon’s, 
perhaps.” 

“‘T don’t like your going out to Gordon’s, Joyce. Really 
— that’s not a nice place. Tellme you won’t . . . please!” 


“Oh, very well! Only one can’t do all the deciding. 
One’s escort has something to say about that too.” 


So KS? 


On the rose counterpane lay several letters; one of them 
from Montgomery Brent, brief, brotherly, suggesting that 
his counsel would be at his “‘ little sister’s ” disposal should 
she be troubled about business matters, now that her re- 
sponsibilities were increased. 

“* Only too glad, you know, to straighten out the kinks for 
you when it comes to income tax, investments, and the safe- 
guarding of your estate. That sort of thing is my daily 
work.” 

“The dear boy!’ she murmured half-aloud, as she re- 
read it, “How decent of him; and not a bit bad idea, 
either. I wonder does he really know anything about busi- 
ness. He ought to by this time.” 

Montgomery, whom it pleased her to think of as her 
brother Monty (never more affectionately than now that 
she felt so desolated), was five years her senior. College not 
agreeing with him after his sophomore year, Monty had 
brought his saxophone to the jazz-market. Not quite satis- 
fied to make a permanent profession of bouncing and writh- 


96 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


ing and puffing himself purple every night from eight until 
two in the front row of a dance orchestra, he had made some 
friends among the chalky-fingered youngsters who posted 
the board at a down town brokerage office. In a few 
months he had a desk and a small-salaried position in the 
organization. 

*[’m a broker!’ he would reply maturely, when some 
young thing coyly inquired, while they danced, what college 
he attended. 

Doubtless he was doing well enough now. He had not” 
borrowed from Helen for more than a year; had given her 
an expensive silver vase for a wedding present, appearing 
on that occasion in a morning coat, striped trousers, and 
spats, the only man present who had given no quarter to 
the request for informal dress. . . . It wasn’t a half-bad 
idea. There was one friend left, anyhow — good old Monty! 

Another letter was a brief note, written to Joyce, by the 
young Merrick person, dated from Ann Arbor; evidently 
composed with much care. It left many things unsaid 
which its author assumed would be read into it. He had 
entered the Medical School, hopeful of becoming of some 
use, eventually, to the profession which her father had so 
conspicuously adorned. 

“* T never-would have picked him for the part,” Joyce had 
interpolated, as she read that much of the letter to Helen. 
“ Rather quixotic, don’t you think? ” 

“ Did it on impulse, likely,” Helen had remarked. 

“ Rather fine of him, though — at that! Wouldn’t you 
say? ’”’ championed Joyce. 

“ T’ll tell you a year from now,” Helen had replied, half- 
audibly. 

Joyce had continued reading to herself. With a gesture of 


32 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 97 


impatience, upon finishing the letter, she tossed it across the 
table, and savagely dug into her grapefruit. 

“J think you had better answer it, Helen. The only 
human, personal line in it is for you. Write and tell him 
you hope he gets on well with his teachers, and makes A in 
everything,” she snapped, with frank asperity. 

The only human, personal line read, ‘‘ Please convey my 
sympathy and regards to Mrs. Hudson, whom I hope I 
may soon have a chance to know.” 

Helen had made no further comment. Her opinion of 
the Merrick person was based solely upon Joyce’s disquiet- 
ing references to him — a spoiled youngster with loose habits 
and too much money. It was clear enough that the girl 
entertained an infatuation for him which he had made no 
effort to capitalize. Helen was glad of it. She had no wish 
to meet him — had dreaded the day when he might turn up. 
It was enough that he had been the cause of her husband’s 
tragedy. . . . Not his fault, of course; but she hoped he 
would not make it necessary for her to try to be nice to him. 
It was a closed incident. She was relieved. 

The letter had remained in her pile of morning mail, 
beside her plate. Later, it had been tucked into her port- 
folio. She had read it again, in bed. Well, it was no con- 
cern of hers, whether he made good or not. At least, he 
was out of Joyce’s calculations. . . . One questionable 
friend less to worry about. 


> o> 
Helen was awakened with a start, as the door of her room 


was cautiously opened far enough to admit the flushed face 
of Joyce. 


98 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


“You, Joyce? ” 
The door was closing, slowly, cautiously. 
“Sorry, darling. . . . Good-night!’’? came in muffled 


tones from beyond the door. 

** Come in, dear! ”’ called Helen. 

There was a considerable delay before the door opened 
again. Joyce came in, jerkily, all but asleep on her feet, 
dazedly rubbing her forehead with the back of the hand in 
which she clutched her crumpled hat; the other groping, 
uncertainly, for something to support her. She leaned 
heavily against the foot of the bed, swaying dizzily. 

“* Oh! — but, my dear!” cried Helen, in consternation, 
propping herself up suddenly on her elbows. ‘‘ What in 
the world —! Where have you been? ” 

** Gordon’s! ” 

Joyce ground out the gutteral between tensely locked 
jaws, and smiled fatuously. 

Helen sat up and peered incredulously, silently, at her 
disheveled step-daughter, who grew restive under the 
inspection. 

“‘ Been — been writin’ letters?” Joyce surveyed the litter 
on the bed with a pitiable attempt at casualness. 

Helen nodded briefly, and pressed both hands tightly 
against her forehead in a gesture of despair, which Joyce de- 
cided to ignore. 

“* And if there isn’t ickle Bobby?” She leaned far for- 
ward, over the foot of the bed and with elaborate precision 
flicked the letter contemptuously with her finger. “‘ That! — 
for you! — Doctor Merrick! ” 

“ Why — Joyce Hudson! — you’re drunk! ” 

Helen stepped out into her slippers, caught up a kimono, 
and put her arm about the girl’s sagging shoulders. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 99 


* Who? Me?” giggled Joyce amiably. ‘“ Me — drunk? 
You should shee Tommy! ” 

‘““Let me help you to bed,” pleaded Helen brokenly. 
“No — here! You may sleep in my room.” 

Joyce fumbled helplessly at her buttons with one hand, 
the other clumsily mopping her dripping brow with her 
little hat. Presently she crumpled on the bed, and Helen 
tugged off her dress and laid a cold towel across her eyes. 

“ Thanks, darling! ’”? mumbled Joyce, between heavy sighs. 


“Much bother . . . too bad . . . all my fault. . . . Don’t 
blame Tommy. Tommy nice boy! Goin’ — goin’ to marry 
Tommy. . . . Well — can’t you congrat — can’t you felic 


— I’m afraid I can’t say it very distinc’ly — but aren’t you 
glad — about Tommy and me? ” 

* Let’s wait and talk it over in the morning, dear,” soothed 
Helen, turning the towel and patting it about the flushed 
temples. 

“No — sir!” babbled Joyce, with an expansive gesture. 
“We're goin’ talk about it —” she brought a slim, lovely 
hand down with a clumsy slap on the pillow — “ ri’ now!” 
The towel was brushed aside, and she gazed up militantly 
with swollen eyes. “‘ Tha’s just like you! Youcry! I come 
home — all happy — to announce my engagesh to Tommy 
—and you cry! What’s the big idea? Do you want him? ” 

Bridling her impatience, Helen urged the drunken girl to 
leave off and go to sleep. Maudlin tears of self-pity bathed 
Joyce’s face. 

“* Nobody loves me!” she wailed. ‘‘ Nobody but good 
old Tommy! . . . But I won’t marry him! . . . I won't!” 

Presently she relaxed, licked her stiff lips, sighed deeply, 
and slept. Helen knelt by the bed, her face buried in the 
covers to escape the heavy fumes, and wept piteously. 


100 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


Wayne Hudson had left her with a responsibility quite too 
serious to be met. Only one thing had he expected of her. 
She had failed him. 

Oo o> 


At length, rousing stiffly from the cramped position in 
which she had fallen asleep through sheer fatigue and nerv- 
ous exhaustion, she mechanically collected the scattered 
letters from the floor, turned out the light, and went de- 
jectedly to Joyce’s bed-room. She put down the letters on 
the little vanity table and bathed her face with cologne. 

Bobby Merrick’s rather stilted note lay open before her 
as if inviting attention. Between the lines it announced that 
he considered himself under a moral obligation to Doctor 
Hudson. . . . She had been disposed to wave that implica- 
tion aside as a mere pose . . . a bit of ephemeral martyr- 
dom to be toyed with until he tired of it . . . a pretense of 
gallantry. She averted her eyes from the letter, perplexed, 
accused by it. Was she too under a certain moral obligation 
to Doctor Hudson? Young Merrick was trying to discharge 
his! How about hers? 

She carefully folded the letter, and stood for a long time 
preoccupiedly deepening its creases with nervous fingers. It 
occurred to her that she would like to have a long, confi- 
dential talk. with Bobby Merrick. Perhaps he might have 
something to suggest. . . . She stared at her haggard re- 
flection in the mirror and shook her head. No — the way 
out did not lie in that direction. She tucked the letter into 
her writing-case, and tumbled wearily into bed. 


VII 


A+ ONE O’CLOCK ON THE MORNING OF THANKSGIVING DAY, 
young Merrick solved the riddle to which he had devoted 
much of his spare time for nearly two months. 

After only a week’s sporadic work on it, he had written to 
Nancy Ashford: 

** When the light breaks on this it will not come like a 
valley dawn. The book is going to be pitch dark up to a 
certain moment, and after that it will be clear and bright as 
a June morning. There’s no halfway business about a job 
like this. Either you can read it all, with ease and under- 
standing; or you can’t read a syllable!” 

The Thanksgiving recess having begun at noon on 
Wednesday, Bobby determined to spend the brief vacation 
on the cryptic journal. It would be a good time. Distrac- 
tions and interruptions would be reduced to a minimum, 
for no sooner had the noon whistles blown than the student 
quarter was as deserted as if warned of an impending epi- 
demic of the Black Plague. He had made a tentative 
promise to have evening dinner on Thanksgiving Day with 
old Nicholas “‘ provided I finish a problem it is important 
to complete at once.” 

All Wednesday afternoon, he turned from one futile experi- 
ment to another, most of them being variants of schemes 
already tried. It annoyed him that he seemed unable to 
bring his attention to a sharp focus. Now he would sit at 
his desk for an hour, sharpening pencils and gazing glassily 
at the mocking script. Now he would fling himself across 
his bed and, supporting himself on an aching elbow, set 


down columns of letters in every manner of eccentric se- 
YOr 


102 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


quence. Oblivious of the passing time, his own discomfort, 
his need of exercise, he continued to lay out diagrams and | 
tear up paper. Night came down and he turned on the 
lights. Midnight found him very weary, his brain operating 
mechanically, sluggishly. He tapped his teeth with his 
pencil, and went wool-gathering in spite of himself. He 
even made a brief mental excursion on foot along the high- 
way to the north of Windymere and assisted a motorist in 
distress. Recovering himself, impatiently, he pursued his 
endless diagrams. 

Then a fresh idea occurred to him. Here was something 
he had not yet tried. He wrote the first few words of the 
unintelligible script in a running line, utterly disregarding 
the spaces between them. (It had long been his practice 
to reproduce the letters in capitals, thinking this might help 
to simplify the words.) 

Now he broke in two what was obviously the first sentence, 
at the point where the Greek letter “ yz” indicated a half- 
stop, and set down the remainder of that obvious division 
immediately below it: 

RACVE'T:O°S:D RO M FAN 
E.DrReGeN i Te ENVY \U- YaRveeD 

Moved. by sheer caprice, he wrote the lines again, the 

second division lacking one space of meeting the left margin: 
RA EM 1TOe SD RO Morar 
ED BeGON IVE 7 Y Ue yeas 

For full five minutes he stared at this combination until 
the lines blurred and blended. Of a sudden, his heart 
speeded up. His pencil shook as he rapidly re-wrote the 
letters, mortising the lines: 

READERICONSIDERYOUMYFRIEND 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 103 


** T have it!” 

He shouted, aloud; laughed, ecstatically, half hysterically. 
How ridiculously simple it was — now that he had cracked 
it open. Within five minutes of feverish copying and mortis- 
ing, he had decoded the brief message of the first page: 


READER I CONSIDER YOU MY FRIEND AND COM- 
MEND YOUR PERSEVERANCE HAVING ACHIEVED 
THE ABILITY TO READ THIS BOOK YOU HAVE ALSO 
THE RIGHT TO POSSESS IT MY REASONS FOR DOING 
THIS IN CIPHER WILL BE MADE PLAIN AS YOU PRO- 
CEED 


re 2S 


With the long strain relaxed, Bobby awoke to the fact 
that he was wolfishly hungry. He dressed for the street, a 
broad grin of self-satisfaction on his face. It was good to 
have conquered something! As he stood before the glass, 
knotting his scarf, he glanced at the little black book on the 
table as a gladiator might have regarded a recumbent 
antagonist. 

Stepping out into a stinging sleet-storm, invigorated by 
its tonic thrust, he squared his shoulders, lengthened his 
stride, took deep inhalations, laughed joyously, sang the 
Marseillaise, and marched to it, swinging his long arms with 
a triumphant swagger. 

There was a little chop-house only a block south of the 
Michigan Central station where one Tony held forth all 
night. Tony was typical of the occasional small shopkeeper, 
erudite barber, philosophical cobbler, or picturesque res- 
taurateur to be found in every college town, by whose 
eccentricities, combined with a sincere interest in varsity 


104 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


athletics and the institution at large, they contrive to achieve 
local fame. 

Many a full professor at the State University would have 
been happy and lucky had he been able to call as many 
undergraduates by their names as Tony. The turn-over in 
population in a college town being bewilderingly rapid, 
Tony’s eleven years residence in Ann Arbor had made him 
a fixture, an institution. It was as if he had been there 
since the sixth day of creation. 

He was reputed to be quite well to do, in spite of the fact 
that he extended credit and made unsecured loans to stu- 
dents with a naive faith that would have closed a bank in 
forty-eight hours. 

On the cigar-case lay open a cheap day-book. Attached 
to it, by a cotton string, was a pencil. If a student came 
into Tony’s place without funds, he ordered what he liked 
and upon leaving wrote his name and the amount of his 
indebtedness in the book. It was not necessary to establish 
one’s credit. One wrote in the book. When one got around 
to it, one paid off the score, leafed back through the book, 
located and personally deleted the item. ‘Tony unemo- 
tionally accepted the payment. His failure to smile his 
thanks over the liquidation of the debt was in itself a pretty 
compliment. Having known it would be paid, there was no 
occasion for breaking out into rapture. 

Tony himself came on duty at six in the evening and 
stayed the night., Nobody ever saw-him at his place of 
business in the daytime, capable assistants being in charge 
through the breakfast and luncheon hours. 

“Tony, how come you work only at night?’ he was 
‘ frequently asked by his clients, as he plunked platters of 
ham and eggs on a bare wooden table. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 105 


** You rather I not be here at night — eh? ” Tony would 
inquire, grinning, quite aware that in the noisy protest 
which this rejoinder would evoke, their original inquiry 
would be forgotten. 

Periodically young reporters on The Michigan Daily, hope- 
ful of developing what they suspected was an unusual flair 
for feature writing, would engage Tony in conversation 
about his business; how much did he lose annually through 
bad loans and loose credit; why did he work only at night 
when business was unimportant; and sundry queries phrased 
in the best’conventional manner of journalistic impertinence. 
But no story had ever appeared on this subject, Tony in- 
variably taking refuge, when hard pressed, behind his in- 
adequate knowledge of English. 

“TI couldn’t get anything out of him. He’s too damned 
dumb.” 

“‘'Yeah? ” the sophisticated Sunday editor would reply. 
** My boy, you have made the customary blunder of mis- 
taking Tony’s depth for thickness! ” 


CaS 


Bobby Merrick knew from experience that Tony would be 
on hand tonight, to attend to his pressing wants. He would 
be served with amazing rapidity a steak well able to hold its 
own alongside many a more snobbish cut of select beef with 
a Parisian name, all buttoned up the back with mushrooms 
and presented with stiff salaams on a silver-mounted plank 
at a cost ten times the tariff Tony levied. There would be 
freshly-made coffee and a salad worthy of an exacting palate. 
Tony knew exactly when to stop rubbing the bowl with 
garlic. 


106 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


Bursting into the little café, Bobby found himself the sole 
patron. Tony, drowsy but amiable, made haste to draw | 
out a chair for him. With the grace of a courtier, he took 
his guest’s heavy fur coat and deftly shook the snow from its 
shoulders. 

His client enumerated his desires with the eloquent con- 
viction of one who knows exactly what he wants, and Tony 
made off with his instructions. 

*Needn’t bother about the potatoes, Tony,” called 
Bobby, as his host began to rattle his pans. 

“Out dam’ late, doc!” shouted Tony, above the hiss of 
the hot grill. He had an unerring instinct for identifying 
medics; probably because they were older than the rah- 
rahs, and had a pungent smell. Medics were always highly 
aromatic of their future trade. 

‘* Baby case, mebbe? ”’ 

He liked to make the young medics think they looked old 
and wise enough to be internes, at least, or out on call, 
understrapping for their snug-in-bed betters. Eventually 
the more industrious and persistent would be “‘ doctored ” 
officially, some fine June morning at Hill Auditorium, in the 
sonorous tones of the President; but every one of them had 
long since received his degree from Tony. They chaffed 
one another about it; but never chided him, or suggested 
that he discontinue the practice. 

“No, Tony,’ drawled Bobby, ‘‘ nothing like that. Not 
for a long time yet. And no babies —ever! ” 

Tony plopped the thick stone dishes down with a comfort- 
ing clatter on the bare table, adorned only by deep-carved 
initials — some of them to be pointed to with pride; many 
of them reminiscent of excellent stories without which the 
university traditions would have been seriously impoverished. 


i 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 107 


The steak was a masterpiece. The potatoes had arrived, 
magnanimously unmindful of the guest’s feeling of indiffer- 
ence toward them. There was a head of chilled lettuce, 
half the size of a small cabbage, dripping with a creamy 
Roquefort dressing not to be had in that exact degree of 
all-rightness in more than six other places in the North 
Temperate zone. 

** Coffee, doc? ” 

“You bet, Tony! Strong as brandy and hot as hell! [Pm 
in great need of nourishment! ” 

Tony put down the steaming mug, thrust his big thumbs 
under his apron-string, in the vicinity of his waistcoat pockets, 
and considered his voracious customer with deep satisfaction. 
The next best thing to broiling a choice steak was watching a 
healthy client making proper use of it. 

** No babies — eh? ” 

Bobby shrugged a shoulder and shook his head. 

“* Eye-ear-nose — mebbe? Lots of dem fellers.”’ 

“Heads!” declared Bobby, stoutly abjuring ophthal- 
mology, otology, and all their works. 

** Ah — so?’ Tony grew excited. ‘‘ I show you a head! 
You like for to see heads? Look, doc!’ He bent down and 
offered for minute inspection a four-inch strip of bare white 
scalp. Straightening, he lightly tapped the scar and nodded 
several times very solemnly, ““I dam’ near die. . . . Very 
bad!” 

“ Accident? ”? inquired Bobby. 

** Railroad! ” 

** Wreck, maybe? ” 

Tony chuckled. 

“Nah! Work on da railroad. Jus’ — what you call — 
wop! Not ride.” 


108 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


“So, after you were hurt, you thought you had enough 
of working on the railroad, eh? ” 

“T’ll say da world! ” concurred Tony, whose amazing use _ 
of the prevailing slang was by no means the least of his con- 
versational charms. ‘‘ Doc Hudson — he set me up here.” 

“You don’t tell me!” Bobby put down his fork and gave 
attention. 

Tony nodded vigorously. 

“Doc Hudson — Detroit — he fix me. Patch da head. 
Put me in da business. Great feller! Too bad he die! ” 

When it was evident that his patron wanted to know all 
about it, Tony was eager to furnish information. The 
sanguinary account of his accident was recited dramatically 
with much stress upon the grisly details, not omitting a quite 
voluminous report of the minor incidents leading up to the 
event, many of which were less essential to the pathology of 
the case than to the histrionic technique of the narrator. 

All but dead, he had been; yes. The company surgeon 
had called in Doctor Hudson. Hudson had done “ da 
eempossible!”? But never again must Tony be working 
under the hot sun — never! 

“But what I do?’ I cry.. ‘I starve; mebbe?’.. . 
‘ Gan you cook, Tony?’ he say.” 

It developed into a long story. Doctor Hudson had spent 
a whole day helping Tony locate a suitable place for his 
little restaurant; had guaranteed the rent of the building; 
had been present at the purchase of.the range; had de- 
posited to Tony’s account in the leading bank a sum suf- 
ficient to carry him until his income was assured. 

“‘T never heard about this before, Tony,” said Bobby. 

““No! Nobody know! Doc say, ‘Tony! Tell nobody. 
Not while I leeve.” He dead now. I can tell!” 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 109 


Bobby’s glassy look of abstraction was mistaken for wan- 
ing interest in the story, and Tony had no wish to bore his 
guest. He would return to the medic’s pet interest. It 
was reasonably sure he would be attentive to an inquiry 
about his own aspirations. 

*“* So! — You do heads, too, mebbe — like Doc Hudson? ” 

“T hope to, Tony. Some day,” said Bobby, rising. 

“* Great feller — Doc Hudson! . . . Nobody know! ” 


Sy ESS 


Young Merrick paid-his bill, donned his coat, said good- 
night, lingered with his hand on the latch. Tony had begun 
clearing the table. 

““T say — Tony! ” 

Tony put down a double handful of dishes. 

“Did Doctor Hudson ever tell you why he wanted you 
to keep it a secret about his setting you up here? ” 

Tony inserted his thumbs under his apron-string and 
strolled forward, meditatively shaking his head. 

** Dam’ funny feller! He say, jus’ like I tell you, ‘ Tony, 
I fix you so you no more work in da hot sun. While I leeve, 
you tell nobody.’ I say, ‘ Doc, you one dam’ fine feller. I 
pay you back some day.’ He say, ‘ Nah — but, Tony,’ he 
say, ‘some dam’ cold night, eef a feller come een, hongry 
and broke —’ ”’ 

“Yeah? ”’ prodded Bobby; for Tony had apparently 
changed his mind about the advisibility of this confidence 
and had dismissed the rest of the sentence with a gesture. 
His red face crinkled with perplexity, and he rubbed the 
side of his bulbous nose with a corner ofhis apron. Nodding, 
jerkily, after the manner of an old man, he turned away, 
and was resuming his interest in the dishes. 


110 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


‘* What then? ” pursued Bobby — at his elbow. 

** Doc say never tell nobody while I leeve.” 

“You mean — you never tell about these fellows who 
come in here hungry and broke? . . . Listen! Dll bet you 
a new fur-lined overcoat against a package of fags that that 
little account book, over there, on the case — and all these 
fellows who come in here hungry and broke — ” 

Tony interrupted. His face was very serious. He picked 
up his tray, and, as he straightened dignifiedly, he replied, 
in a thickening dialect significant that he was about to sub- 
merge and become incommunicable, “ Ees eet dat you 
would make old Tony onhappy? Da leetla book! Eet ees 
for me to know! Doc Hudson — he say, ‘ Tony — you tell 
nobody! For why he say that, I do not know; but —I 
tell nobody! ” 

“[’m sorry, Tony!” said Bobby contritely. “I had no 
right to intrude in your personal affairs. I beg your pardon.” 

Tony smiled absently. 

“ Oh — eet ees all right,” he said reassuringly. ‘‘ Gooda 
night, doc. Come again! ” 


VIII 


hes FROM A SLEEPLESS NIGHT AND THE EXPERIENCE 
of more mental agony than he had suspected himself capable 
of, young Merrick sank dejectedly into a club chair on an 
early train for Detroit. 

In response to the long and excited telegram he had sent 
her from the railroad station while en route to Tony’s, the 
night before (he heartily wished, two hours afterward, he 
had not sent it), Nancy Ashford had wired she would be 
waiting for him at the Michigan Central depot. 

It was the picture of her, radiant with anticipation and 
bubbling with questions, that he dreaded most. Nancy 
must not be hurt. 

As for himself, he would get over it. Somehow he would 
be able to accommodate himself to the utter abandonment 
of his cherished illusions about Doctor Hudson, and the 
hero-worship that had held him up in his dull, monotonous 
grind at the Medical School; though, now that the bottom 
had fallen out of everything, he wondered how he could go 
back and tread the mill again. 

But, however difficult that might be, it was simple enough 
compared to the pending job of sitting down beside Nancy 
Ashford and hunting for pleasant words with which to tell 
her that her sainted Wayne Hudson, to whom she had un- 
requitedly given her full devotion, was crazy. 

He was not even an interesting lunatic. A lunatic, often 
as not, was a brilliant mind that had blown up under com- 
pression — blown up splendidly, with.a loud report, the 
neighbors hurrying with straps and stretchers to collect the 
débris and lug it off to the mad-house. 


11! 


112 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


No, this man Hudson had not been good enough to him- 
self to explode so that everybody could hear it and know | 
what the big bang meant. He was just a plain nut! . . 
Can you feature it? ... Grown-up man... of good 
standing professionally, respected and admired . . . toiling 
interminably over the detailed report of what some wild- 
eyed crank had told him of impossible experiences, and then 
going to the enormous bother of concealing that hodge- 
podge of delusions in a code —a performance worthy the 
mind of a seventh grade schoolboy playing sleuth with a 
toy pistol. 

Returned from Tony’s, wide awake and exultant, he had 
resolved, late as it was, to decode a few pages of the journal. 
He had read patiently at first, with a broad smile of anticipa- 
tion. Presently he found himself wishing the eccentric 
author would soon have done with his commonplace pre- 
liminaries and settle to business in the disclosure of his big 
secret — for it would have to be a big one to justify all this 
elaborate hocus-pocus of the code. 

Surely nothing was discoverable, so far as he had gone, 
that required any thick wall of secrecy. It might be diffi- 
cult to induce the general public to read it, were it printed 
in English for free circulation; but to pretend it was a deep 
mystery was idiotic. 

After awhile he had come upon a paragraph that drew 
down the corners of his mouth and dragged a bitter ‘‘ What 
tell! = from an oversmoked throat. He pushed the little 
book aside contemptuously; rose, paced the floor, lighted 
his pipe, tossed it clatteringly upon the table; undressed 
and went to bed — but not to sleep. 

His disappointment was the most serious jolt of his life. 
Never until three months ago had he ever taken any stock 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 113 


99 66 99 6¢ 


in “‘ big moments, crucial decisions, great renuncia- 
tions,” “‘ consecrations,” and the like. If people suddenly 
left off doing one thing and went galloping away in another 
direction, it was because they had sighted something more 
to their advantage. As for the legends of Saul and Saint 
Francis and Joan — well, if there was any substratum of 
truth in them, the psychiatrists could explain it. 

Nor had he ever had any patience with that sticky con- 
fectionery of sentimentalism, that daintily perfumed moon- 
shine, which effeminate visionaries referred to as “ ideals.” 
He had always been willing that all such blather should be 
left to the exploitation of preachers, poets, and the sob 
sisters. 

Lately he had changed his mind about that. The coinci- 
dence of his having been saved from the lake at the same 
hour a valuable life had been lost in it, and at the price of 
that life, had stampeded him into a grand orgy of sentiment. 
He could understand Saul and Joan. . . . Hudson had be- 
come his ideal, his star, his sun, his totem-pole! . . . Now 
it was all over! . .. 

There had been an old story about an idol that had fallen 
down because it had clay feet. His had tumbled over with 
vertigo . . . sick in the head! To have grown to manhood 
without an “ideal” of any kind; to have espoused one, 
belatedly, with crusading zeal; to have discovered, after 
burning all his bridges behind him, that his hero was a sap! 
. . . It was a nasty wallop! 

He had gouged his hot face into his pillow and decanted 
his wrath to its bitter lees. . . . It wasn’t that he had any 
fault to find with Hudson’s penchant for poking a prehensile 
snout into other people’s affairs with a passionate urge to 
do his one good deed per day, like the Boy Scout his silly 


/ 


114 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION. 


little journal proclaimed him... but . . . My God! ... 
Hudson wasn’t the first man in all human history who had 
titillated his ego and busted the buttons off his weskit by 
doing alms! . . . What a pother about nothing! 

At long last he had drifted off into an uneasy sleep, growl- 
ing that he had a damned good notion to go on to New 
York in the morning and hop the first boat for Cherbourg. 
. . . His passport was still alive. . . . Grandpére would 
gladly send it to him. . . . Then he wouldn’t have to stop 
and face Nancy. . . . What a rotten trick that would be! 
. .. And Grandpére? ... The dear old boy had taken 
a lot of pride in him lately... . 

He would be in Detroit now in five minutes. He must be 
careful not to offend Nancy. Why not hand her the journal 
and the code-key and make off hurriedly to keep some 
urgent engagement? He could say his grandfather needed 
him badly. It would be true enough if he said he himself 
was sick. 

She was waiting for him at the gates, wide-eyed and 
smiling when he first sighted her from the tunnel; a bit 
perplexed as he drew nearer. . . . So it was plastered all 
over his mug, then! ... He tried to pull a smile—a 
sickly smirk he knew it was; slipped an arm through hers; 
inquired, without meeting her eyes, if she’d had anything to 
eat, which she hadn’t; told the porter to check his bags; 
and propelled Nancy to a quiet corner of the station res- 
taurant where he made much ado about helping her with 
her coat — nervous as a caged fox. 

“ But I thought you had succeeded, dear.” She followed 
him with inquiring eyes as he multiplied his little attentions 
and made no end of trouble for himself trying to find a place 
for her umbrella. ‘‘ You don’t resemble a conquering hero. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 115 


You look more like the man who had set out after a beauti- 
ful butterfly, under the impression it was some kind of a 
bird; and found, after battering its wings to bits, that he 
had captured a worm.” 

Bobby put down the menu, which he had begun to pore 
over assiduously, and emphasized his rejoinder by planting 
a long index finger close to her plate. 

** Now you’ve said it! I went after a butterfly and came 
back with a worm! ” 

** And whose fault was that — the butterfly’s? ” 

“Take your base, Nancy,” he conceded with a chuckle. 

“Take my base—indeed!... What about?... 
Your wild pitching? . . . I tell you it was a safe hit and a 
home run! ... But—no matter about the butterfly. 
Wake up, stupid; and let me into the secret! ” 

At that he attempted to rally, cleared his throat, made 
pretense of rolling up his sleeves. He wasn’t going to let 
Nancy down. Maybe he himself could carry on without 
the guidance of the Hudson specter; but Nancy couldn’t. 
He would save the honor of her precious ghost if he had to 
profess faith in voodooism, necromancy, and witchcraft! 

** I’m tired; that’s all. . . . Up nearly all night. Let’s 
talk to the waiter first.” 

She was not reassured, but willing to be patient. 

“It’s simple as addition! ’? he declared, when the waiter 
had trotted off. ‘“‘ That is—” pleating the tablecloth with 
restless fingers, ‘‘the mere mechanics of converting the 
script into readable sentences is easy enough. But — to 
understand what it’s about, once you’ve done that... ” 

He broke off suddenly and smiled. ... By the Lord 
Harry — he’d been handed his cue —at last! Now he 
could make his speech! He’d tell her the stuff was too 


“116 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


deep for him! That would be infinitely better than to say 
it was childish piffle! 

“Why — how very exciting!’ exclaimed Nancy. “ Out 
of one mystery into another! ” 

Bobby took the book from his pocket and opened it on 
the table before her, their heads close together. He was 
smiling now, quite pleased with his decision to let her ex- 
plain it to him. 

“Look! Tl read you the first page . . . . Easy enough, 
isn’t it? ” 

Nancy was ecstatic. She spread her hand over Bobby’s 
and gripped it hard. Almost too good to be true, wasn’t it? 
He nodded, adding mentally, ‘‘ or even entertaining.” 

“How far have you gone?” she inquired, leafing the 
unintelligible pages. ‘‘ Aren’t you just thrilled to death? ” 

Bobby had no enthusiasm to match hers, try as he would. 


“Over to here... about twenty pages. Thrilled? 
Well— no; not that, exactly. ... Just stupified.... 
It’s over my head, you see. . . . I suppose I’m like your 


clumsy naturalist chasing the butterfly. Dve been expect- 
ing so deuced much, and have worked so long to pry the 
lid off this thing that, now it’s off, maybe I’ve damaged it 
somehow, or perhaps I haven’t the mentality to — ”’ 

Nancy clutched his hand again — savagely. 

“Look me straight in the eyes, Bobby Merrick! You’ve 
not been yourself for one instant since you arrived. You 
can’t put anything over on me! I’ve been all through you 
with a lantern! You’re trying to keep something back! I 
won't have it! Come clean, now — and tell me all about it! 
What’s the trouble, boy? ” 

Bobby flushed and hung his head like a naughty child 
caught in the jam-pot. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 117 


“* Aw — the stuff’s no good! . . . Bunk — if you ask me. 
. .- If anybody else but Doctor Hudson had —I say, 
Nancy, are you quite sure he really did write this? It isn’t 
signed, you know.” 

“Don’t talk nonsense! . . . What’s it about? ” 

“ Well — it isn’t exactly religion, I guess; but it reads 
like those goofy tracts that shabby chaps with dirty whiskers 
toss into the open window of your car . . . slush you can 
have by the ton for a whole lot less than the asking! And 
why he should have gone to the pains of jiggling the words 
all out of shape, as if they spelled some precious secret, 
the good God only knows! If anybody else had written it, 
I'd say he was all unhooked! ” 

Nancy had been tapping the table with her finger-tips, 
thoughtfully, impatiently, indignantly, and now explosively. 

“* How old are you, Bobby? ” she snapped. 

“* Twenty-five-goin’-on-twenty-six,” he recited, in the tone 
of one six-goin’-on-seven—a pleasantry she failed to 
acknowledge. 

“Well — when Doctor Hudson was just coming into 
national renown for having performed the first head opera- 
tion of its kind in the history of surgery, you still had some 
of your milk teeth to cut and were galloping about the 
nursery on a stick-horse!_ When he wrote this ‘ bunk,’ you 
hadn’t learned to wash your own ears! I don’t mean to be 
too rough with you, sonny; but you need a drubbing, and 
you're jolly well going to get it from your Nancy Ashford 
this day! ” 

“Go ahead! . . . ’'d rather you were sore at me than —- 
than —” 

“ Hadn’t nerve enough to finish it, had you? You 
were trying to say you hoped I wouldn’t discover that 


118 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


Doctor Hudson was a fool. . . . Don’t give yourself any 
concern about that. I won’t! ...I presume you never 
had your attention called,” she went on, biting her words — 
into bits, “to the psychology of the genius. Why should 
you, indeed? Freshman medics aren’t troubled much, I 
presume, with excursions into the rarer altitudes of psy- 
chiatry which deal with obsessions. They’re kept too busy 
peeling the pelts off cadavers; trying to remember which is 
incas and which is stapes; trying to distinguish carpal from 
tarsus! . . . Oh, J know! You needn’t hoity-toity me with 
your wisdom! ” 

She suddenly sighted the open-mouthed waiter. 

“Here! . . . If you’re looking for something to amuse 
you, take this cold coffee away and bring a fresh pot... 
some that was made this morning — preferably.” 

Bobby burst out with a peal of laughter as the fellow 
paddled away. 


** Nancy — you’re a scream! . . . Do go on!” 
*“T mean to! . . . ’m going to give you your first in- 
formation about the genius-type. ... The genius won’t 


pigeon-hole! He won’t card-index! He won’t file. . . 
And because he won’t, the dull-eyed dolts who hadn’t 
needed any trimming to fit whatever pack they properly 
belonged to, think him crazy. They can’t understand him, 
so — he’s unhooked! He romps away where they can’t 
follow, so — he’s gone wild! . . . He bestrides an idea and 
rides it furiously across country, over ditches and fences, 
through people’s houses, trampling down fields and gar- 
dens, knocking even his best friends down, and never know- 
ing it... never looking back . . . or caring a tinker’s 
dam... so long as he can retain his seat on that one 
tremendous idea! 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 119 


““ Now — our Doctor Hudson was that sort of a person, 
and he became obsessed with an idea. He conceived a 
notion . . . ’m sure I don’t know how he came by it; 
maybe this book tells; I have hoped it would . . . that his 
professional success depended upon certain eccentric philan- 
thropies which had to be kept secret to be effective. That 
much I managed to guess, long ago. . . . Then the thought 
occurred to him, apparently, that he would put his theory 
into such shape that his heirs or successors or admirers might 
have a go at it. But he wanted to be insured against the 
ridicule of some pinhead who, pouncing upon it by acci- 
dent — ” 

Bobby raised a hand. 

“You’re getting rather excited, aren’t you? ” 

* You find it ridiculous that he employed this silly cipher,” 
she continued, lowering her voice. ‘‘ Well — suppose he’d 
written it in Latin, which he easily could have done without 
a lexicon; would that have caused you any less bother? 
. . . Or Greek! He could have done it in Greek! How 
much Greek do you know — beyond the letters on your 
fraternity badge? ... . He wanted to make somebody dig 
for it —I tell you — and that was all of a piece with his 
obsession! It was part of it!” 

“You win, Nancy,” admitted Bobby quietly. ‘‘ You and 
I think the same thing about Doctor Hudson. We just say 
it differently; that is all. . . . I said he must be mentally 
unhooked, and you say he was a genius and that all geniuses 
are unhooked. . . . Very good. . . . Now we can read 
the little book together and understand each other — even 
if we can’t understand the book.” 


120 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


ee Kee 


“ T’ll give you a brief digest of what I’ve read so far. . . . 
Nancy — it isn’t that I begrudge him the time I’ve spent un- 
tangling this involved cipher. It’s only that there’s really noth- 
ing in it that calls for such mysterious handling. You’ll see! ” 

*“*T won’t be sure about that until we’ve read the book — 
all through.” 

Bobby fingered his notes. 

“ The story begins about a year after the death of Joyce, 
his first wife. Her long illness had slowed him up; ab- 
sorbed all the neural energy that should have gone into his 
professional training. On the edge of failure and in deep 
depression, he was half-minded to give up surgery and go 
into business. ... It occurred to him, one day, that 
Joyce’s grave should be marked... . ” 

“* Ah —there you are!” ejaculated Nancy, with sup- 
pressed excitement. 

Bobby glanced up, inquiringly. 

“‘ That tombstone was a milestone! ” she explained, with 
emotion. ‘‘ How often, when he wanted to date some event 
in his experience, it would be ‘ shortly after I had erected 
the little marker for Joyce.’ . . . Do go on!” 

‘“* He went to a concern dealing in memorial stones and 
selected an inexpensive monument. On the blank form he 
wrote his wife’s name and the vital dates. The manager 
asked if he wished a brief epitaph. .It seems to have been 
customary, at that time. Unable, on the spur of the moment, 
to think of an appropriate sentiment, and eager to close the 
business at once, he was advised to stroll out into the pro- 
duction department and look about. Perhaps he might see 
something there that appealed to him. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 121 


“So — he went through the factory, where monuments 
were under construction, and there he accidentally came 
upon this man Randolph.” 

** You speak of this man Randolph as if he figured some- 
what in the tale. I never heard of him.” 

“Yes, Randolph is by way of being the hero of the piece, 
as far as I have gone. I leave it to you to say, after you’ve 
made his acquaintance, whether Randolph is an apostle of 
light or as mad as the Hatter. Personally, I haven’t any 
use for him. He makes his début in the story as an ex- 
ceptionally gifted hypnotist. . . . Turns out to be a sort 
of — miracle-man.”’ 

“ Are you trying to tell me,’ demanded Nancy, “ that 
Wayne Hudson took an interest in a person of that sort? ” 

** Well — you shall see. . . . This Randolph fellow was 
in a studio partitioned off from the main production room. 
He was not a mere stone-cutter, but a sculptor — an un- 
commonly good one. . . . Artist type. The piece he was 
doing, according to the journal, was a triumphant angelic 
figure, heroic size, gracefully poised on a marble pedestal, 
altar-shaped; an exquisitely modeled hand shading the eyes 
which gazed toward the far horizon, entranced by some dis- 
tant radiance. . . . It had all the combined delicacy and 
strength of a Canova — ” 

** Are you quoting? ”’ 

* Yes; it’s in the book — just that way.” 

“But Doctor Hudson knew practically nothing about 
art!” 

** He may have known more about it than you thought. 
He was heavily influenced by this crazy Randolph, as you 
shall see; and Randolph was a consummate artist.” 

*“Oh, I wonder — do you suppose it could have been 


122 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


Clive Randolph? You know — the sculptor who did that 
group of children in the Metropolitan. He has been dead | 
for years. Why, Bobby, I do believe he used to live here 
in Detroit! ” 

** Likely as not.” He put his penciled notes down on the 
table and sat for some time with half-closed eyes, absorbed. 
“Another genius,” he mumbled. “ Nancy, geniuses do 
have a right to be batty, don’t they? ” 

“ Certainly! ’? Nancy glowed. Bobby was seeing the light. 

He took up his memorandum. 

“ Well, on the face of this altar-shaped pedestal was en- 
graved, in high relief, in ecclesiastical letters, these words: 
* Thanks Be to God Who Giveth Us the Victory.’ ” 

Nancy murmured that she thought it odd. 

** How do you mean ‘ odd’? It’s in the Bible somewhere, 
isn’t it?” 

** Doubtless,” she conceded, with a nervous laugh. “It 
could be in the Bible, almost anywhere, and still be odd, 
couldn’t it? But what I mean is that it seems queer to find 
Doctor Hudson reciting a quotation from the Bible. He 
wasn’t the tiniest mite religious! ”’ 

** Don’t you be too sure about that! ” he warned. 

“Why, Bobby, he was not only unconcerned; he was 
almost contemptuous of religious organizations; hadn’t 
been inside a church, except at weddings, for twenty years. 
He was soured on churches as a small boy; told me once — 
it was when some quite dreadful evangelist was here and the 
papers were full of his cheap vulgarities — that the churches 
in his village were forever haranguing people to ‘come 
apart from the world,’ when they had nothing to offer in 
exchange for such renunciation but the vestigial remains of 
medieval superstitions! ”” 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 123 


“But, couldn’t he have been interested in —in the 
supernatural without being a church adherent? ” 

“Well, would he? . . . It isn’t customary.” 

“Oh, well! if you propose to analyze this thing in the 
light of what’s customary, let’s go to the football game and 
quit torturing ourselves. ...I ask you! ... Is it cus- 
tomary for a man to conduct his ordinary charities by 
stealth; scampering, squirrel-fashion, into his hole and 
pulling the hole in after him, at the approach of anyone 
who might discover he had done somebody a good turn? 
Is it customary for a man to write the story of his madness 


in a kiddish cipher? Ill tell you what he was! . . . one of 
these old-time mystics! . . . believed in fairies . . . had 
visions . . . played with the angels! ”’ 


** Bobby Merrick — you’re c-r-a-z-y! ” 

** No — not yet; but I’ve a queer feeling I’m going to be.” 

Nancy pushed back her plate and impatiently waved the 
waiter away when he asked if everything wasn’t all right. 

““No—” Bobby slowly shook his head, judicially. ‘“ It 
wasn’t really religion that he had; not what I think of as 
religion, anyway. I don’t pretend to know much about it, 
but isn’t religion just a more or less perfunctory acceptance 
of a lot of old myths abstracted from the folk-lore of the 
Jews; tries to make people say they believe this and that 
about God; imagines it knows what God wants humanity 
to do — sometimes waiting sadly for mankind to do it, and 
at other times pushing people about so that they’ve got to 
do it, willy-nilly; takes up subscriptions to send barkers to 
the so-called heathen, warning them they’ll seethe in hell if 
they don’t leave off calling their God whatever-it-is and 
call Him something else? ” 

Nancy laughed. 


124 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


“Tt isn’t that bad, Bobby. It couldn’t possibly be that 
silly. People do get a lot of comfort out of their religion, or . 
they wouldn’t stick to it.” 

“ Comfort!” he echoed. “I’m glad you used that word. 
I believe I can tell you now what I think was the difference 
between this stuff that Doctor Hudson had — and the con- 
ventional sort of religion. Ordinary religion is intended to 
bring comfort. Believe such-and-such, and have comfort, 
peace, assurance that all is well and a Great Somebody is 
looking after things. Well — this religion that Hudson had 


certainly brought him no comfort! . . . Rode him lke the 
Old Man o’ the Sea . . . lashed himon . . . hounded him 
by day and haunted him by night . . . worked him like a 
slave . . . obsessed him! ” 


“He could have given it up, couldn’t he, if it annoyed 
him? ” 

“ Ah — there you are! Now you’ve touched the vital 
spot! No! He couldn’t give it up because it furnished his 
motive power! It was what kept him going! . . . Says it 
made him — professionally! ” 

“Tm afraid you’ve let this book get horribly on your 
nerves, Bobby.” Nancy drew on her gloves. “ Let us go 
out to Brightwood, where we’ll not be interrupted, and see 
what it’s all about.” 

Bobby was slow to rise. 

“Nancy, my whole attitude toward this matter is chang- 
ing, since talking it over with you. I don’t mind telling you 
I was never so disgusted or disappointed in my life as last 
night when I tried to read this stuff. But that was because 
I expected it to be a normal account of a normal man’s ex- 
periences. And when I found it wasn’t normal, well — I 
committed the usual blunder of pronouncing it silly! ” 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 125 


Nancy was radiant. 

“ Exactly! . . . So long as he was saying the customary 
thing, the normal thing, the thing you understood, he was 
sane! When he got to the unusual, the thing you did not 
understand, he was crazy! . . . That’s the way the average 
mind operates; but you daren’t make snap judgment like 
that, for you’re to be dealing with queer heads all your life! ”’ 


OTS 


Throughout the long taxi drive to the hospital, their 
conversation studiously avoided the mystery they had con- 
fronted. They talked of his medical course. What did he 
like best? She shuddered when he spoke of his delight in 
anatomy. 

““One gets used to that,” he assured her. ‘‘ And old 
Huber’s a prince! He handles those poor cadavers as if 
they were our relatives. Ill bet if some of them had been 
given as much tender consideration while alive as Huber 
gives them in the lab, they might have lived longer... . 
Buries their ashes, Huber does, at the end of the semester 

. . Conventional interment — bell, book and clergy. . . . 
Contends that these paupers and idiots and criminals, how- 
ever much they may have burdened their communities while 
they lived, have so completely discharged their obligation 
to society by their service in the lab, that they deserve 
honorable burial. ... A fine old boy is Huber, believe me!” 

The talk shifted to Nancy’s affairs. She admitted she was 
worried. Rumor had it that Joyce Hudson was quite out of 
bounds; that Mrs. Hudson, apparently, could do nothing 
with her any more. She was being seen at the wrong places, 
with the wrong people. 


126 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


““ Do you suppose there is anything you could do about it, 
Bobby? Joyce is still your friend, isn’t she? ”’ 

“‘T presume.” His tone lacked interest. ‘‘ I haven’t seen 
her for nearly a year, you know.” 

‘““It may be just a notion of mine, but I always thought 
Joyce was a little in love with you, Bobby.” 

His gesture denied it. 

“She isn’t; but — suppose she was! . . . Would that be 
a good reason for my mixing in, over there? I’m not in 
love with her. No—I don’t believe my obligation to 
Doctor Hudson involves my serving in loco parentis to his 
daughter.” 

“‘’m not so sure it doesn’t,” reflected Nancy. ‘“ You’ve 
had an ambition to finish out his life for him, and part of 
his job was Joyce. There were times when all of his job 
was Joyce! You’ve no idea how much he gave up for her! 
Why, he even married — to keep her straight! ” 

“That shouldn’t have been much of a sacrifice.” Bobby 
grinned. 

“* Have you ever seen her — since? ” 

“ Never tried to.” 

** Still think about her, sometimes? ”’ 

““ Why do you want to know?”’ His tone hinted that he 
would like to close a door between them — not rudely, but 
— to close it, nevertheless; and, prompt to feel it, Nancy 
disclaimed her right to inquire. 

*“* Korgive me, won’t you? I haven’t anything to do, you 
know, but amuse myself wondering about things like that.” 

“ Then I mustn’t do you out of your occupation.” 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 127 


oe S 


Nancy hung their coats in her closet, drew up a chair 
beside him, and together they faced the book again, agree- 
ing that she should read the script, letter by letter, while 
Bobby arranged it into words. 

“ First, let me finish telling you the part I have already 
deciphered,”’ he said, putting down his pencil. “ Randolph 
pointed to the epitaph and inquired, ‘ How do you like this 
one? ” 

*** Means nothing to me!’ replied Doctor Hudson. ‘ If 
there is a God, He probably has no more interest in any 
man’s so-called victory, which can always be circumstan- 
tially explained, than in the victory of a cabbage that does 
well in a favorable soil.’ 

““* Then you’re related to God same as a cabbage!’ 
chuckled Randolph. ‘ That’s good!’ 

“He resumed his work, deftly tapping his chisel. ‘I 
used to think that,’ he went on, talking half to himself. 
‘Made a little experiment, and changed my mind about it.’ 
He put down his mallet, leaned far forward, and, cupping 
his mouth with both hands, confided, in a mysterious tone, 
‘ Pve been on the line!’ ” 

** He must have been crazy! ’’ Nancy muttered. 

* Tut, tut! .. . What’s come of your genius theory? You’re 
willing Doctor Hudson should be one — why not Randolph? ” 

* Quite right! Go on! ... But he does sound a little 
off, doesn’t he? ” 

“Decidedly! . . . And dangerously, I should say! ... 
The most cold-blooded, calculating, sacrilegious lunatic you 
ever met! ... Tl show you. Here is the exact copy of 
my translation! Listen to this: 


128 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


He did not have the tone or stance of a fanatic; spoke 
quietly; had none of the usual tricks by which aberrations are 
readily identified; talked well, with absolute self-containment. 
** Victory? Well— rather! I now have everything I want and 
can do anything I wish! . . . So can you! . . . So can any- 
body! All you have to do is follow the rules! There’s a formula, 
you know! I came upon it by accident!” He took up his chisel 
again. 

He was a queer one. I felt shy and embarrassed. Clearly, 
he was cracked, but his manner denied it. I tried to remember 
he was an artist, with permission to be eccentric; but this was 
more than an eccentricity. He made me shivery. I wanted 
away. So —I was backing through his doorway when he called, 
“ Doctor — do you have victory? ” 


** Victory over what?’ I demanded, impatiently... . I 
had not told him I was discouraged; hadn’t mentioned I was a 
doctor. . . . I never did find out how he guessed that — the 


question being eclipsed by more important mysteries. 

** Oh — over anything — everything! Listen!’ He climbed 
swiftly down from his scaffolding, and gliding stealthily toward 
me as if he had some great secret to impart he whispered into my 
ear — his hand firmly gripping my coat-lapel, somewhat to my 
own anxiety — “ Would you like to be the best doctor in this 
town? ” 

So — then I knew he was crazy, and I began tugging my- 
self loose. 

“Come to my house, tonight, about nine o’clock,” he said, 
handing me his card, “‘ and I’ll tell you what you want to know! ” 

I must have looked dazed, for he laughed hilariously, as he 
climbed up again. I laughed too as I reached the street — the 
epitaph matter having completely left my mind for the time. I 
had never heard so much nonsense in my life. ‘“ Like hell,” I 


growled, as I started my car, “‘ will I waste an evening with that 
fool! ” 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 129 


** This writing is authentic, Bobby.” 


At nine, o’clock, I was at Randolph’s door. ... When 
these words are read I shall be unable to answer any queries as 
to my motive in going there that night. And that will be for- 
tunate; for I have no explanation further than to say (and this 
will unquestionably be regarded with distrust and disappoint- 
ment) that I was propelled there against my wishes. I had no 
thought of going; went in response to some urge over which I 
had no control. . . . I was down town to dinner, that evening; 
returned home at eight; went immediately to bed — quite con- 
trary to my custom, for I never retired before midnight — and 
began reading a book, unable to concentrate on a line of it. I 
could not keep my eyes off the clock. It ticked louder and louder 
and my heart beat faster and faster until the two of them seemed 
synchronized. At length, becoming so nervous I could no longer 
contain myself, I rose, dressed hastily, dashed out for my car, 
and drove to Randolph’s address without regard to boulevard 
stops or angry traffic officers. My mouth was dry, my heart 
thumping. 

> > 


‘* How do you like it — far as we’ve gone? ” he asked. 

Nancy’s elbows rested heavily on the desk, her clenched 
fists digging deeply into her cheeks. 

“Why, Bobby — isn’t this just awful?” she whispered. 
** It’s tragic!” 

“You'll think so— presently. It hasn’t begun to get 
awful yet! ” 

His eyes traveled back to his copy. 


“You had not intended to come, had you?” inquired 
Randolph, taking my hat. 
“ No! ” I replied, sourly. 


= Fea A 
NATIONAL caTHOL 
MHOLIC COMMUNI 
SEATTLE wasn J My, a 


WAST. Ling {7 


130 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


‘““That’s what I feared,’ he said, gently, “ but I felt so 
sure you needed to have a talk with me that I —” 

“That is what I want to know!” I demanded. “ What did 
you do?” 

He grinned slyly, rubbed his hands together softly, satis- 
fiedly, and said, ‘‘ Well — I earnestly wanted you here; and, as 
I told you, this morning, whatever I earnestly want — tt comes! 
I wanted you here! You came!” 

He motioned me to a seat —I was glad enough to accept 
it for my knees were wobbly — in a living-room furnished in 
exquisite taste. His daughter, whom he had gracefully pre- 
sented, promptly excused herself, and left us alone. Offering me 
a cigar, he leisurely filled a long-stemmed churchwarden pipe for 
himself, and drew his chair closer. In his velvet jacket, at his 
ease, he was all artist; quite grizzled, wore a short Van Dyke 
beard; had a clear, clean, gray eye that came at you a bit shyly 
and tentatively, but left you no way of escape. 

He lost no time in preliminary maneuvers. Reaching to a 
small book-table, at his elbow, he took up a limp-leather Bible. I 
knew then that I was in for it. Impetuously, I resolved upon an 
immediate, if inglorious, exit. Savagely, I put up a protesting 
hand and said firmly, “‘ Now — if it’s that, I don’t care to hear 
about it! ” 


** See? ”? shouted Nancy. ‘“ What did I tell you? ” 


To my surprise, he put the book back on the table, and 
calmly puffed at his pipe, thoughtfully, for a while; then replied, 
“Well — neither am I — except as it’s really an important his- 
tory of a great religious system. Quite useful, I presume; but 
I’m not specially interested in it — except one page —” He 
blew a few smoke rings, his head tilted far back against his tall 
chair. ‘‘—and I have cut that page out. . . . I just wanted 
you to see this particular copy of the Bible. I was about to say — 
when you plunged in with your impatient remark — that this 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 131 


copy of the Bible lacks the secret formula for power. I keep that 
one page elsewhere! ” 

““What’s on it?” I inquired, annoyed at my own con- 
fession of interest. 

** Oh — ”’ he replied casually, “it’s just the rules for getting 
whatever you want, and doing whatever you wish to do, and 
being whatever you would like to be. But — you’re not inter- 
ested in that; so we’ll talk about something else.” 

** What is on that page?’ I demanded — my voice sound- 
ing rather shrill. 

“Do you really want to know?” he challenged, leaning 
forward and fixing me intently with his gaze. 

* Yes! ” I barked. 

His next words came slowly, incisively, single-file. 

** More — than — you — have — ever — wanted — to — know — 
anything — before?” 

“Yes! I admitted — and meant it. 

* Say it!’ he commanded. 

I repeated it: “‘ More — than — I — have — ever — wanted — to 
— know — anything — before! ” 

His manner changed instantly. 

** Good! Now we can talk! ” 

He went down into an inside pocket and produced a 
morocco wallet. From the wallet, he extracted a folded page. 
I read it, and he carefully interpreted its meaning. 


Nancy’s eyes were a study, when Bobby stopped reading 
to search her face. 

** Are you prepared now for a complete knock-out? ” he 
inquired. ‘“‘ Ifso— I'll give you the next paragraph. 


I did not leave Randolph’s house until four o’clock, and 
when I finally went out into the dark, considerably shaken, I was 
aware that my life would never be the same again. Whatever 
of success has come to me in my profession dates from that hour 


132 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


and can be explained in terms of the mysterious potentiality 
which Randolph communicated to me that night. 


There was a long silence between them. 

“ That’s almost as far as I’ve gone,”’ said Bobby. 

“Far enough —I should say!” Nancy’s deep sigh was 
ominous of dejection. 

“Then let’s call it a day.” He rose, and glanced at his 
watch. ‘‘ You and I can’t help knowing that this is some- 
thing Doctor Hudson must have written when he was under 
very heavy pressure of work; half dead on his feet; seeing 
things; hearing voices. Perhaps we shouldn’t be reading 
it at all. Maybe it isn’t fair to his memory. How about 
giving it up — and forgetting we ever went this far into 
it? ” 

Nancy tapped the table, thoughtfully, with her finger-tips. 

‘I wonder what was on that page! ” 

He laughed. 

* That sounds like Doctor Hudson! That was what he 
wanted to know. Now it’s your question! I’m bound to 
confess I’d like to know too.’ He gripped her arm in strong 
fingers. ‘‘ And —no matter how stiffly we revolt against 
this thing, we’re sure to be sneaking back to it, one at a time, 
to investigate; so — perhaps we should be honest with each 
other, and look into it now/ Are you willing? ” 

She nodded, without looking up. 

“Take warning! 3 It’s likely to make us as nutty as he 
was! ” 

Lighting a cigarette, Bobby strolled to the window, hands 
in pockets. He turned, and leaning on the window-sill, 
faced her studiously. 

*“Not me! I’m not going to do it. I can’t afford to 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 133 


dabble in such stuff. It isn’t good for me. I had no idea I 
could be so impressionable toward this sort of thing. You 
can go into it, if you want to.... I’m out!” . He dis- 
missed it peremptorily, with widespread fingers. 

Nancy’s voice was husky. 

** You'll not be able to get away from it! You’re too far 
matress. And, yous/know).it!). ... It's got: youl 4.5201 
know it’s got me! I understand now why he went to the 
Randolph house, that night! ‘There’s something — some- 


thing sort of inevitable about it! . . . A form of insanity, 
maybe; but — once it beckons to you, it’s got you! You 
may as well come along — first as last! . . . It has curious, 
invisible tentacles that reach out and wrap their feelers 
about you . . . and draw you up... . and into... . and 
drag you along... ” 
“Stop it, Nancy! . . . That’s ridiculous! ” 
> > 


Young Watson could hardly have chosen a less opportune 
moment to put his headin. Mrs. Ashford had a caller, and 
it was clear that both hostess and guest were laboring under 
an unusual mental tension . .. having something of a 
storm, indeed! Realizing he was de trop, he was for making 
a hasty retreat, when Nancy recalled him. 

“Come on in! You remember Mr. Merrick.” 

“ Quite!” extending his hand. ‘I shall always remem. 
ber you as putting up the gamest fight with pneumonia that 
I ever watched! And now, I hear, you’re having a battle 
with old man Gray.” 

Turning to Mrs. Ashford, he stated his errand: 

* Your Mr. Folsom is rapidly slipping out. In an hour or 


134. MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


two he will be quite unconscious. He inquired for you a 
few minutes ago. Perhaps you will want to run in and see 
him. There seems to be none of his people in town.” 

Murmuring regret, Nancy rose to go. 

** Will you wait for me? ”’ 

Merrick nodded. 

*‘T’ll go on with this. Take your time. You'll find me 
here when you come back. ” 


The door closed softly behind them. 
> boa 


I reached out my hand greedily for the page Randolph had 
unfolded, but he shook his head. 

“Not just yet,” he said, smiling at my eagerness. “TI 
mean to let you see it; but I must tell you something about it, 
first. This page contains the rules for generating that mysterious 
power I mentioned. By following these instructions to the letter, 
you can have anything you want, do anything you wish to do, be 
whatever you would like to be. I have tried it. It works. It 
worked for me. It will work for you! ” 

Combined impatience and incredulity brought a chuckle 
from me which he did not resent. 

“You saw that piece I was working on when you came in, 
this morning? ” 

“ Beautiful! ’ I exclaimed — sincerely. 

“You liked it that much?” He was pleased with my 
enthusiasm. ; 

“‘ Nothing short of a masterpiece! ”’ 

“Perhaps I should be more grateful for that compliment, 
doctor; but I really have had very little to do with it. . . . You 
may be interested to learn that I was an ordinary stone-cutter 
until about three years ago, hacking out stamped letters with a 
compression chisel. From my youth, I had cherished an ambi- 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 135 


tion to do something important in stone. But there was never 
any money for training; never any time for experiment. Such 
crude and hasty attempts as I had made, from time to time, had 
netted nothing but discouragement. 

“One day, I went to the church my little girl attended, 
and heard a preacher read what is on this page. It evidently 
meant nothing to him, for he read it in a dull, monotonous chant. 
And the congregation sat glassy-eyed, the words apparently mak- 
ing no impression. As for me, I was profoundly stirred. The 
remainder of the hour was torture, for I wanted out where I 
could think. 

*‘Hurrying home to our bare little house, I found — with 
considerable difficulty, for I was not familiar with the Bible — 
that page from which the minister had read. There it was — 
in black and white — the exact process for achieving power to 
do, be, and have what you want! I experimented.” 


SS ee 


Nancy’s face, sober and troubled, appeared at the door. 

“ Bobby,” she said softly, ‘“‘ I don’t like to leave you alone 
so long, but my patient seems to want a hand to hold. [’m 
afraid I must stay with him a little while.” 

** Quite proper,”’ he agreed, without more than a glance 
at her. ‘‘ Stay with him and don’t worry about me. I may 
have something very important to tell you when you come 
back. It looks as if the big mystery may be cleared up now 
at any minute.” 

She hesitated, and was about to ask a question; but, 
seeing how complete was his absorption, withdrew and 
quietly closed the door. 


With that, Randolph handed me the magic page. Some 
twenty lines of it were heavily underscored in red ink. In silence 


136 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


he puffed his pipe while my eye traversed the cryptic paragraphs, 
and when I looked up, inquiringly, he said: 

“* Of course, you will not realize the full importance of all 
this, instantly. It seems simple because it was spoken dispas- 
sionately, with no oratorical bombast or prefatory warning that 
the formula he was about to state was the key to power! ” 

Edging his chair closer to mine, he laid a long hand on my 
knee and looked me squarely in the eyes. 

** Doctor Hudson — if you had a small, inadequate brick 
house, and decided to give yourself more room, what would you 
need for your building? . . . More brick. . . . If you had a 
small, inadequate steam-engine, you would want more steel to 
construct larger cylinders — not a different kind of steel to house 
a different kind of steam, but merely more room for expansion. 
. . . Now —if you had a small, inadequate personality, and 
wanted to give it a chance to be something more important, 
where would you find the building materials? ” 

He seemed waiting for a reply, so I humored him. 

‘* Well — according to the drift of your argument, I pre- 
sume I would have to build it out of other personalities. Is that 
what you’re driving at? ” 

** Pre—cisely! ’’? he shouted. ‘“‘ But—not ‘out of!’ ... 
Into! . . . Glad you said that, though; for it gives me a chance 
to show you the exact difference between the right and wrong 
methods of making use of other people’s personalities in improv- 
ing one’s own. . . . Everybody is aware, instinctively, that his 
personality is modified by others. Most people go about imitat- 
ing various scraps and phases of the personalities that have 
attracted them — copying one man’s walk, another’s accent, 
another’s laugh, another’s trick of gesture — making mere mon- 
keys of themselves. . . . This theory I am talking about doesn’t 
ask you to build your personality out of other personalities, but 
into them! ” 

“I’m afraid all that’s too deep for me,” I admitted be- 
fuddledly. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 137 


He rose and stamped back and forth in front of the grate, 
shaking his shaggy mop of grizzled hair, and waving his long- 
stemmed pipe as if trying to conjure a better explanation. 

““See here! You know all about blood transfusion. That’s 
in your line. Superb! . . . One man puts his life into another 
man. . . . Doctor —how do you accomplish a blood trans- 
fusion? Tell me in detail! ” 


ee, 


Merrick glanced up as the door opened. 

“Ts he gone? ”’ 

Nancy nodded, soberly. 

“What has been happening since I left?’ she asked, 
drawing up a chair beside him. 

He pushed his notes toward her and watched her face as 
she read. 

*¢ Just what zs the best process of blood transfusion? Let’s 
see how much you know! ” 

“ Well — it’s simple enough, except for one obstacle. The 
blood must be kept from coagulation as it passes from the 
donor to the recipient. Even when the artery and the vein 
are attached by a little cannula, the blood soon clogs the 
glass; so, to avoid that stoppage, the vein of the recipient 
is passed through the cannula and cuffed back over the end 
of it. Then the cannula, carrying the vein, is inserted into 
the artery of the donor. The point is, you see, to insure 
against any outside contact.” 

** Bobby — what was on that page? ” 

** T haven’t learned yet.” 

“Do you think he is ever going to tell us? ” 

** He’s got to, sooner or later. Let’s read on. I imagine 
we're close to it now.” 


138 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


Nancy took the pencil and began to copy from his rapid 
dictation. 


I explained the principles of transfusion, briefly, and Randolph 
seemed mightily pleased, especially with that feature of it which 
concerned the problem of coagulation. 


** Bright boy — Bobby! ” cried Nancy. ‘‘ You did know, 
didn’t you? ” 

He acknowledged her sally with a grimace and continued 
dictating. 


‘You will notice there,” pointing to the page in my hand, 
*“ that this first step toward the achievement of power is an ex- 
pansion — a projection of one’s self into other personalities. You 
will see that it has to be done with such absolute secrecy that if, 
by any chance, the contact is not immediate and direct — if, by 
any chance, there is a leak along the line of transfer — the whole 
effect of it is wasted! You have to do it so stealthily that even 
your own left hand —” 


Nancy tossed her pencil down on the desk, and relaxed in 
her chair. 

“ Bobby! I’ve got it! J can find the page!” 

“Ts there a Bible handy? ”’ 

*T’m afraid I haven’t one, dear.” 

““ Well — that can come later, then. Continue! 


Randolph returned to his chair, and went on, in a lowered 
voice: 

“ Hudson — the first time I tried it—I can tell you the 
incident freely because nothing ever came of it, although it had 
cost me more than I could afford, at the time, to do it — the 
chap was so grateful he told a neighbor of mine, in spite of my 
swearing him in. He had been out of work and there had been 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 139 


a long run of sickness in the family, and he was too shabby and 
down at heel to make a presentable appearance in asking for a 
job. I outfitted him. He told it. A neighbor felicitated me, 
next day. So there was more than Sixty Dollars of my hard- 
earned cash squandered! ” 

“ Squandered!”” I shouted, in amazement. ‘“‘ How squan- 
dered? Didn’t he get the job? ” 

Randolph sighed. 

** Oh, yes,” he said. ‘“‘ He found a job. I was glad enough 
for that, of course. But — that didn’t do me any good! You’d 
better believe — the next time I made an outlay I informed the 
fellow that if I ever heard of his telling anybody, I would break 
his neck.” 


** Did you ever hear of anything more diabolical? ”? broke 
in Nancy, indignantly. “Can you imagine such fiendish 


selfishness? . . . Just doing it to benefit himself! . . . Not 
even willing the other fellow should be grateful! ... 
And yet he thought he was getting himself connected with 
God, that way! . . . It gives you the creeps! ” 


** Well — keep ‘it in mind he’s obsessed with a de- 
lusion.”’ 

** Possessed of a devil — I’d rather believe! ” 

“Maybe Doctor Hudson will explain it. . . . Let’s pro- 
ceed.” 


He laughed merrily at the remembrance of the incident. 

“The man thought I was crazy!” he added, wiping his 
eyes. 

** And you weren’t?”’ I inquired, in a tone that sobered 
him. 
* Really —it does sound foolish, doesn’t it? I mean — 
when you first hear of it. I don’t wonder you’re perplexed.” 

**T am worse than perplexed,” I admitted, blunily. “I’m 
disgusted! ” 


140 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


“You and me — both!” interpolated Bobby, under his 
breath. 


“You might well be,” admitted Randolph, “if I were 
trying to get power, that way, to stack up a lot of money for my 
own pleasure. All I wanted was the effective release of my latent 
ability to do something fine! . . . And, as for being disgusted 
because I requested the man not to tell anybody what I had 
done for him, if that offends you, you wouldn’t like the Lord 
himself! . . . For he often said that to people he had helped.” 

“Tm sure I don’t know,” I said. ... “ Not very well 
acquainted with what he said. . . . Go ahead with your 
story.” 

“Thanks. . . . But, first let me lead you just a little 
farther into the general philosophy of this. . . . On the night 
of the day I made my first successful projection of my personality 
—TI cannot tell you what that was —I dare not —I went lit- 
erally into a closet in my house, and shut the door. That’s the 
next step in the program, as you have read there on that page. 
You see — I was very much in earnest about this matter; and, 
having already bungled one attempt, I was resolved to obey the 
rules to the letter. . . . Later, I discovered that the principle will 
work elsewhere than in a closet. Just so you’re insulated.” 

*“* Oh — Randolph — for God’s sake!” I exploded. “ What 
manner of wild talk is this? ”’ 


“Good!” interrupted Nancy. “It was high time he 
called him! ” 


“TI confess I can’t understand,” ‘said Randolph, im- 
patiently, ‘‘ why you find this so hard to accept! Why — it’s in 
line with our experience of every other energy we use! Either 
we meet its terms, or we don’t get the power. What did Volta’s 
battery or Faraday’s dynamo amount to, practically, until Du 
Fay discovered an insulation that would protect the current from 
being dissipated through contacts with other things than the 


=: & 


% 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 14T 


object to be energized? . . . Most personalities are just grounded! 
That’s all that ails them! 

“So, I went into a closet; shut the door; closed my eyes; 
quietly put myself into a spiritually receptive mood; and said, 
confidently, addressing the Major Personality, —J have fulfilled 


_all the conditions required of me for recewing power! I am ready to 


have it! I want it! I want the capacity to do just one creditable work of 
Statuary! 

** Now — you may be inclined to believe that I experienced 
“only a queer delusion, at that moment. As a scientific man, you 
‘may think that my mental state can easily be accounted for by 
principles well known to psychology. If you think that, I have 


_ no objection. The fact that a process of achieving power by the 
. Pee of the human personality admits of an explanation, in 


& 


‘scientific terms, does not damage its value at all, in my opinion. 


I dare say the time will come when this matter is made a subject 


£ 


of scientific inquiry. 

** But — whether it is explicable or not, I can truthfully 
assure you that upon finishing my experiment in that closet, I 
received — as definitely as one receives a shock from an electrode, 
or a sudden glare of light by opening a tightly-shuttered room — 
a strange inner illumination! 

“It was late in the night. I came out of that dark, stifling 
little closet with a curious sense of mastery. It put me erect, 
flexed the muscles of my jaw, made my step resilient. I wanted 
to laugh! I tried to sleep; and, failing of it, walked the streets 
until dawn. At eight-thirty, I approached the manager of the 
factory and asked for six months’ leave. When he inquired my 


reason, I told him I had it in mind to attempt a piece of statuary. 


“Something we might use, perhaps? ” he asked. 
“T am confident of it,” I said, surprised at my own au- 
dacity. It was enough that I had determined to survive some- 


_ how, without wages, for six months; but now I had made an 


extravagant promise to the manager. He was thoughtful for 
a while and then said: 


142 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


**<T’ll give you a chance to try it. For the present, you are 
to have your usual pay, and a studio to yourself. If you produce 
something we can place, you will share in the sale. Your hours 
will be your own business. I should be glad if you suc- 
ceeded.’ 

**T began work at once in a flutter of excitement. The clay 
seemed alive in my hands! That first day was a revelation. It 
was as if I had never really lived before! All colors were more 
vivid. I want you to remember that, Hudson. See if you have 
the same reaction. Grass is greener; the sky is bluer; you 
hear the birds more distinctly. It sharpens the senses — like 
cocaine. 

“That night, I went into my closet again, and was im- 
mediately conscious of a peculiar intimacy between myself and 
That Other; but it was not so dynamic as on the previous night. 
I decided that if I was to get any more power that way, I would 
have to make some further adjustments of my own spiritual 
equipment. 

‘That was on a Friday, the tenth of June. On the first 
day of September, I invited the manager in to see the cast I had 
made. He looked at it for a long time without any remark. 
Then he said, quietly, ‘I have some people who may be in- 
terested in this.’ 

“Tt was the figure of a child, a chubby little fellow about 
four years old. The boy was posed on one knee. He had just 
raised up from his play with a little dog that stood tensely alert, 
in front of him, with a ball in his mouth, waiting for the child to 
notice him. The boy’s shirt was open at the throat. His tight 
little knickers were buttoned to broad suspenders. ‘The legs 
were bare to the knee. He was looking straight aloft, his little 
face all squinted up with baffled amazement, wonderment, curi- 
osity. His small square hand shaded his eyes against a light 
almost too bright for him, the head tilted at an angle indicating 
that he had heard something he could not quite understand and 
was listening for it to be repeated. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 143 


“The next afternoon, the manager’s clients came in—a 
man and his wife. She was in black. They had recently lost 
their little boy. She cried at first, heart-breakingly. But, after 
a while, she smiled. It made me very happy when she smiled. 
I knew then that I had been able to express my thought. 

“I was told to go on with my project and put it into white 
marble. . . . Quite incidentally, the people adopted the boy I 
had used for a model.” 


Cin S 


It was about four o’clock when I left Randolph’s house 
that night. I was ina grand state of mystification. I went home 
resolved that I would make an experiment similar to his. Before 
I went to bed, I tried to project my thoughts to some remote 
spiritual source, but was conscious of no reaction whatsoever. In 
the morning I decided that I had been most outrageously im- 
posed upon by an eccentric and scowled at my own reflection in 
my shaving-mirror. Nobody but a visionary could do these 
things with any hope of success, and I was, by training and tem- 
perament, a materialist and a very cold-blooded one, at that. 
All that day, however, I was aware of being on a quiet, unrelent- 
ing search for some suitable clinical material to be used for an 
experiment in the dynamics of personality-projection. . . . The 
strangest feature of my mood, however, was the fact that the 
power I had begun, rather vaguely, to grope for — under Ran- 
dolph’s urging — was not the mere satisfaction of an ambition to 
make myself important or minister to my own vanity. . . . For 
the first time, my profession seemed to me not as a weapon of 
self-defense but a means of releasing myself! 

The last thing Randolph said to me, at the door, was this 
caution: “‘ Be careful how you go into this, my friend! I do 
not know the penalties this energy exacts when misused. .. . 
I’ve no notion what dreadful thing might have happened to the 
Galilean if he had turned those stones into bread! .. . But, I 
warn you! .. . If you’re thinking of going into this to feather 


144 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


your own nest, you’d better never give it another thought. . .. 
I’m not sure — but I think it’s terribly dangerous stuff to fool 
with! ” 

My own experiences are hereinafter set forth as possible 
aids to whomever has had the curiosity to translate this journal. 
I trust I have made it quite clear why I have chosen this peculiar 
method of passing it along. Had I ventured to report my ex- 
periments, it would have been at the expense of my reputation 
for sanity. I do not know of a single friend to whom I could 
have told these things without putting an unpleasant constraint 
between us. It has been a hard secret to keep. It is equally 
hard, I am discovering, to confide — even with the realization 
that these words are unlikely to be read during my lifetime. I 
dislike the idea of being thought a fool — dead or alive. 

You — whoever you are — may be inclined to read on; — 
perhaps personally interested in making an experiment; per- 
haps just curious. I wonder — would it be asking an unreasonable 
favor — if you would not consent to stop, at this point, if you 
are smiling? . . . You see, some of these experiences of mine 
have meant a great deal to me, emotionally. I don’t believe I 
should want them laughed at. . . . If the thing hasn’t gripped 
you a little by now, put it down, please, and think no more about 
it. . . . If however you seriously wish to proceed, let me counsel 
you, as Randolph counselled me, that you are taking hold of 
high tension! “Once you have touched it, you will never be able 
to let go. . . . If you are of the temperament that demands 
self-indulgence to keep you happy and confident enough to do 
your work—and many inestimably valuable people are so 
built and cannot help it any more than tall men can help being 
tall — leave all this alone, and go your way! ... For if you 
make an excursion into this, you’re bound! It will plaster a 
mortgage on everything you think you own, and commandeer 
your time when you might prefer to be using it for yourself. . . . 
It is very expensive. . . . It took the man who discovered it to 
a cross at the age of thirty-three! 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 145 


i, 


Young Merrick pushed back the papers and turned slowly 
to face Nancy but their eyes did not meet. They felt 
strangely embarrassed in each other’s presence, and sat for 


many minutes in silence. . . . Bobby spoke. 
*“* Bound,’ he said. ‘ Once you go into it, you’re bound.’ 
Hudson has had me bound ever since he died! . . . He 


should have been content with that.” 

Nancy rose and rested her capable hands on his shoulders. 

* It’s a good place to stop, wouldn’t you say? ” 

He agreed. Perhaps they might have an hour or two 
together tomorrow. He had half promised his grandfather 
he would be out for dinner. Tom Masterson had talked of 
going, too. 

*“* Are you meaning to take the book along? ” 

** ll match you for it! ”’ 

“* Heads! ” 

He slapped a coin on his wrist. 

“Sorry, Nancy. . . . Pll bring it back tomorrow.” 


IX 


6¢ 

eee 2 SAID BOBBY, SLOWLY TWIRLING THE STEM OF 
his glass, ‘‘ I wish you would tell Tom about the time you 
and Mr. Anderson butchered the pigs at the Country Club.” 

The talk had been growing too serious. Masterson had 
an annoying tendency, when exhilarated, to become didactic. 
It was all clever enough, informative, interesting — but 
more dogmatic than suited the temper of a Thanksgiving 
dinner. 

By a circuitous route they had arrived at the problem of 
caste in America, Masterson conducting the excursion and 
pointing out the essential facts of interest to be noted along 
the way. Bobby was for a change of topic. Old Nicholas 
had some convictions on this subject. He would probably 
not express them to the same degree with which he believed 
them; but Masterson must not be encouraged to deliver 
himself of too many sentiments unshared by his genial host. 

Why shouldn’t there be a leisure class? Loafers — if you 
like that word better? This was about the only sign America 
had exhibited that she was maturing, ever so little, in a few 
restricted zones. Wasn’t our brand of democracy danger- 
ous? Referendum — huh! What did the average voter 
know? Every nation that had become great had achieved 
its distinction through the leadership of small social and in- 
tellectual minorities! 

Masterson was still talking — Hyde Parking, almost —a 
bit flushed about the temples. Bobby determined upon a 
change of subject. 

Old Nicholas was not in accord with many of young 


Masterson’s views, but he liked his views better than the 
146 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 147 


manner in which he delivered them, and liked both the 
views and the delivery better than the way he drank his wine. 

Meggs had been told to bring up a long-neglected bottle 
of choice Burgundy. In the opinion of the elder Merrick, 
wine like this deserved to be caressed, its color admired, its 
fragrance inhaled, its story reconstructed. It was to be 
sipped, drop by drop. It pleased him that Bobby seemed 
to know how. Liquid sunshine, it was; sunshine that had 
warmed the pleasant banks of the Rhone, in tranquil days 
before the war. One did not toss it off at a draught. Mas- 
terson gulped it. It was good to see Bobby close his eyes as 
his lips touched the rim of the glass, as if he saw merry groups 
of bare-legged little girls tramping it out in the shade at the 
corner of some Provengal vineyard. The boy was maturing 
rapidly, reflected old Nicholas. He had the posture and 
gesture of a man. 

“ Bobby occasionally insists upon this story,” said Nicholas 
obediently, ‘‘ I have repeated it, at his request, many times.” 

“And each time it is better,” commented Bobby, ap- 
preciatively. 

**Let’s have it then, by all means! ”’ shouted Masterson, 
much more boisterously than he had intended, an error he 
instantly endeavored to correct by bowing very formally 
and dignifiedly in an affirmative to Meggs’ unspoken query 
as the bottle was again tilted, tentatively, inquiringly, over 
- his glass. Meggs had tried to put into the gesture just the 
right degree of reserve, but the finesse was a bit too subtle 
for his customer. 

> bod 


** Well,” said Nicholas, clearing his throat, ‘‘ it was this 
way. You see, where Axion now stands, there used to be 


148 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


nothing but pasture fields. Joe Anderson and I, when we 
were kids, had a contract with most of the village folks to 
drive their cows out to pasture, every morning, in the 
summer, and bring them home in the evening to be milked. 
Each cow was worth a dollar a month to us. 

“‘ Out there, in those fields, where we freckle-faced young- 
sters, with stone bruises on our calloused feet, sat all day, 
whittling kite sticks, playing mumble-peg, and bragging 
about the teams we captained at school — three-old-cat; you 
never played it, either of you — Joe and I later built a couple 
of big factories which quite changed the look of the landscape. 

“These factories also brought changes in most people’s 
mode of living. Many men, who might have spent all their 
lives in ordinary financial circumstances, came to have quite 
a little money. They built big houses, and their children 
took on airs. It was hard to recognize the place, after a 
while, and even harder to recognize some of the people. 

** Well, no matter how much absorbed we became in our 
business, Joe and I remained, through the years, just kids — 
to each other. I suppose it was a subject for many little 
jokes with other people. We kept up our boyish relations — 
always bragging about our speed, strength, and endurance, 
whenever we met, and invariably in the language we had 
used in the old days. Like ‘ Gemunee Crickets! ’ and ‘ Gosh 
darn ut!’ and ‘ Fer the love o’ Mike!’ It was rather silly, 
Pll admit; but we enjoyed it. 

“* Joe and I used to help our fathers with the hog butcher- 
ing in November. Every family, in those days, had a few 
hogs in a pen. The time came, when we were in our late 
*teens, that the annual slaughter was left pretty much to our 
management, and we usually combined forces — pulling it 
off at the Anderson place, where they had better facilities 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 149 


for such work. We became quite expert butchers, and were 
very proud of our accomplishment. I dare say our fathers 
flattered us in the hope of making us too vain to see how 
glad they were to dodge the job. 

“Well, one day, after Joe and I had retired from our 
business concerns, we were having lunch together at the 
Country Club. It was brand splinter new; had been open 
only a week. The only natural hazard, on the golf course, 
was a little stream where Joe and I used to fish for craw- 
dads and minneys. Nobody ever said ‘ minnows.’ On the 
knoll where the new club house stood, there had been quite 
a nice little grove. Joe and I used to sit among those trees, 
on a log, slapping mosquitoes, and watching for gray squir- 
rels. He owned an old muzzle-loading shotgun. Mighty 
dangerous toy, too. Wonder we weren’t killed a dozen times. 

“We were having a good time reminiscing. It seemed 
queer to be sitting there, on that spot, lunching at a solid 
mahogany table sprinkled with Venetian doilies that slid 
about under crested silver. Everybody belonging to that 
club had plenty of money, and the club house had been built 
and. equipped without regard for expense. ‘There was a lot of 
swank too. The servants seemed to have been let into the 
secret that this was one of our better clubs. The institution 
was by way of becoming a bit snobbish, we feared. Practically 
all the natives who belonged to it had been derived from 
quite humble origins, like Joe’s and mine; and we worried a 
bit about the decline of the old democracy. It struck us that 
the mere fact of our having accidentally made a little money 
didn’t require us to pretend we were of the British peerage. 

“* At adjoining tables sat some of the second-growth crop 
of Axionites — male and female — talking about polo and 
derbies and regattas and Biarritz and grouse in Scotland; 


150 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


and we thought the general tone of the place should be im- 
proved. So we fell to discussing some of the good old times 
the Axion boys and girls used to have before the automobiles 
came along and scared the horses off the roads, and drove 
the cows out of the pastures to make room for the golfers. 
Then, one of us remembered about the butchering. 

“¢ Joe recalled that one time we put on a contest to see 
which of us could dress a hog in the shortest time. I recalled 
the incident perfectly, but was sure I had won the small 
stake we had put up. Joe disputed me so strongly that 
the neighboring tables became interested and, presently, 
alarmed. When we observed that we had collected quite a 
sizable audience, we obligingly continued our debate chiefly 
for their benefit. The upshot of the argument was that 
Joe and I bet a thousand dollars a side that each of us could 
dress a hog in less time than the other. The old chaps, when 
they heard of it, insisted that the contest be held in the grill- 
room, and a book was made which, I learned afterward, 
involved bets running into scandalous sums. 

““ The engagement was put on the club calendar. I’m not 
sure it was pointed to with much pride by the younger set; 
but the old fellows seemed to want it there, and, seeing their 
wishes really had to be consulted, more or less, the polo 
crowd waived their objections. On the next Tuesday, after 
luncheon, no man went back to his office — if he had one. 
Two live pigs — pretty good sized ones, too — were fetched in 
crated. A tarpaulin was spread on the grill-room floor, and 
Joe and I stripped to the skin and put on butchers’ togs. We 
went through it, from squeal to sausage. I was told, after- 
ward, that the club house had to be gone over, from crypt 
to spire. They had grease on the stairsteps and bristles in 
the soup and cracklings in the rugs for days thereafter.” 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 151 


** Did it improve the democratic tone of the club? ” asked 
Masterson, laughing. 

Old Nicholas shook his head and smiled. 

“No. I don’t think so. Once you outgrow the simplici- 
ties, you can’t recover them or even remember them with 
any satisfaction. It’s not far, you know, from corn pone to 
plum pudding, but it’s a long way back! ” 

** What do you make of our new second generation, Mr. 
Merrick? ” inquired Masterson. 

** You mean — yours and Bobby’s, perhaps? Yours is the 
third, you know — counting from where I am. Well —I 
presume there’s more to be hoped for from yours than from 
the one that immediately preceded you.” 

Nicholas’ eyes strayed in Bobby’s direction, and he con- 
tinued, “‘ There’s a youngster, for example, preparing to be 
a doctor. His father, at his age, was an amateur deer slayer. 
When Cliff heard about the hog-dressing episode, he was 
considerably excited. I said, ‘ But, Clif, I heard you brag- 
ging about skinning and curing a buck.’ ‘Oh, well,’ he 
said, ‘that was quite a different matter.’ ...And—I 
*spect it was,” he added generously, after a pause. 

“* Our family ’’ — there was a trace of cynicism in Master- 
son’s tone — “ has been curiously undisturbed by the prob- 
lems incident to the accumulation of large fortune. My 
father is the editor of a small town paper in Indiana. His 
father was a country doctor, his grandfather a Methodist 
circuit rider. All the trouble that money has ever given us 


has been how to get enough of it to pay our bills. . . . But, 
so far as Bobby is concerned, he isn’t running true to type, 
atall. . . . He’s a biological — or, should one say — a fiscal 
sport? ”’ 


Nicholas was meditative. 


152 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


** Well, yes—Bobby’s case is, as you say, somewhat 
unusual.” 

Masterson’s corrugated brow signed that he was tuning 
his kettledrums to this key and would presently be holding 
forth again unless promptly checked. 

‘* Let’s not bother to diagnose my case,” protested Bobby, 
with an amicable growl. “ Besides, I haven’t done any- 
thing yet. And this is no time for serious talk. . . . Grand- 
pére — how about telling Tommy the story of the time you 
and Mr. Anderson bet on which one of you could mow the 
most hay in an hour.” 

Masterson furtively glanced at his watch and was caught 
at it by old Nicholas who immediately pushed back his 
chair, ignoring Bobby’s suggestion, and led the way toward 
the big drawing-room where he paused to toy with the 
music on the piano desk. 

“What’s this ‘ Unfinished Symphony,’ Bobby? .. . 
Mind playing it for us? ” 

‘““Not much in a mood for that one, Grandpére. . . . 
Too stuffed. We need something a bit livelier.” 

** How about this one — ‘ Neapolitan Nights ’? ” 

“Pretty good; but it’s rather soft and sticky too for a 
holiday celebration.” 

“* Something with a lot of bang to it then,” said Nicholas, 
sinking with a satified sigh into a deep chair. 

Masterson edged up to Bobby and, muttered, under his 
breath, ‘‘ I say, do you think your grandfather would take 
it nicely if I ran along? Ive promised to look in, later, at 
Gordon’s. There’s a special little party on there tonight 

. . a Revue. . . . Wouldn’t care to come along, would 
you? ” 

“Who all will be there? ” 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 153 


*“Oh — everybody! The old gang... that you’ve 
snooted so damnably for months! ” 

Bobby was thoughtful for a moment; then, quite on im- 
pulse and greatly to Masterson’s surprise, he said, “I be- 
lieve I will, Tommy. Id rather like to see the bright lights 
again, myself. It’s been a good while.” 

Masterson drummed nervously on the top of the piano. 
Recalling himself suddenly, he said with enthusiasm, “‘ Atta- 
boy, old mole! Let’s tell Grandpére and hop. . . . Just 
make the eight-twenty-five. ...In at midnight. Right 
time to be there.” 

** You weren’t taking anybody, were you? ” 

** Well — yes,” Tom admitted hesitantly. ‘‘ That is, I 
had a tentative arrangement to pick up Joyce Hudson, 
around midnight, and drive her out — provided it was 
quite agreeable I should return from here. But there’s no 
reason why you can’t come with us, is there? ” 

** Not so good! . . . Don’t care to horn in. . . . But — 
Pll run down with you and spend the night at Grandpére’s 
club. . . . Have to be there in the morning, anyway. . . . 
Perhaps I'll drop in for a look at Gordon’s. . . . We'll see.” 

Old Nicholas was glad enough to have done with both of 
them. So long as they stayed, he must be mindful of his 
sacred obligation as host. Late that afternoon he had 
arrived at a most perplexing situation in The Tragedy in 
Stateroom 33, and was feverish to discover whether the pilot, 
whom the count had tied up in the closet, would contrive 
to release himself and warn the American girl before the 
motor-launch returned with the conspirators. 

“Willing you should go?” rumbled Nicholas, as they 
scampered upstairs, ““ Great Snakes! ” 


x 


(Con . . . GorRDON’s — THE COLORFUL! ... Gor- 
don’s — the exotic! . . . Gordon’s at two-thirty in the 
morning! . . . Brilliantly lighted, packed to suffocation, 
strangling in the smoke, sticky with sweat; shrill with gin, 
begotten of dirty messes in moldy cellars and proudly car- 
ried in monogrammed silver flasks; clamorous with the 
new music but lately imported, duty free, from the head 
waters of the Congo and brought to triumphant perfection 
by the highest paid orchestra in the States — fresh from 
New York where its engagement had been abruptly ter- 
minated by a padlock. . . . Gordon’s Gardens! 

Fiddles squeaked, saxophones squealed, oboes giggled, 
clarionets wailed, tubas yawped, triangles clanged. . . . 
“Lament of the Damned,” perhaps? . . . Not at all! ... 
* T’m Lonesome and Blue for You.” 

Bobby Merrick, waiting in the rococo lobby for his coat 
check, listened with the ear of a man from Mars and drew a 
crooked smile. 

His coming had been quite on impulse. Long before the 
train had reached Detroit, he had made up his mind not to 
go out to Gordon’s. The announcement of his decision had, 
he observed, eased the constraint that had fallen upon their 
talk. "Tom had brightened, visibly, though making gallant 
pretense of disappointment. 

““ [ve a book that interests me,” explained Bobby. “ I’d 
rather go to the club and read it than mill around with a lot 
of high school sheiks.”’ 

“And then there’s your rheumatism, Uncle Dudley! ” 

154 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 155 


sniffed Masterson. ‘‘ You ought to be careful at your age. 
. . . Aw — why don’t you snap out of it? ” 

** No — I’ve graduated from all that stuff. It’s the bunk! 
It’s too depressing, Tommy. . . . Everybody pretending! 
. . . Little chap at the next table poking his fork occa- 
sionally into a cold dinner that costs him seventeen dollars 
for the two of them — half his week’s wages. . . . Hopping 
up with his mouth full to push Mazie around again through 
the wriggling pack, wishing he had the courage to ask her 
to marry him, and wondering where he’d dig up three 
hundred for a sparkler. . . . Mazie wouldn’t wear one 
that’ cost a nickel less. . . . And that sad wail they dance 
to; though — God knows — one can’t blame Clarence for 
liking sad music. He’s a sad young man. His credit’s bad 
with his papa, and he’s been drinking too much Dago mash.” 

“Had you ever thought of joining the W.C.T.U.? ” 

“Don’t get peevish, Tommy. You run out to Gordon’s 
and give ’em what you got for your last story, and I'll go 
read my book.” 

“That must be a damned fine book. What’s its name?” 

“ Oh — it’s a treatise by a medical man. You couldn’t 
read it.” 

“Taking yourself rather seriously, aren’t you? ” 

“ sculapius is as jealous as Jehovah, my son.” 

By consent, they had stopped ragging each other, and 
Bobby was asking interestedly about various members of 
the set from which his attention had lately been deflected. 

On mention of Joyce’s name, he inquired casually, ‘‘ See- 
ing much of her, these days, Tommy? ” 

Masterson nodded. 

“ Serious? ” 


156 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


**T wish it might be thought so.”’ 
“‘ Upstage with you, is she? ” 


* Quite! . . . And you damned well know why! ” 
“Nonsense! I haven’t seen her for a whole year! ” 
“Well, it isn’t nonsense . . . not with her.. You’re very 


much on her mind, doc.” 

Bobby repudiated the idea with a gesture. 

“ Fine girl! . . . Wish you luck, Tommy! ” 

“Thanks! Go bump yourself off, and maybe I'll 
have it.” 

“* By the way, Tommy, do you see something of the young 
Mrs. Hudson occasionally? ” 

““Of course. . . . Gorgeous. . . . Irreproachable and 
unapproachable! . . . Goes nowhere. . . . In mourning, 
you know. . . . Southern old school notions about weeds — 
and all that. . . . She’ll come out of it one of these days 
and stir up'/a ‘sensation! ..... Lovely?..,(4) Gaal ian. 
Don’t know her, do you? Well, then you’ve never been 
anywhere and hain’t seen nothin’! ” 

“Bad as that? Tl call sometime and give myself a 
treat.” 

**You’d better not. . . . You’ve hard work to do, and 
shouldn’t be distracted.” 

The train groaned and ground into the ugliest station be- 
tween Bombay and the Aurora Borealis, and they parted to 
hail taxis, promising each other an early meeting. 


oo 6S 


Cordially welcomed and comfortably established at the 
Columbia Club, Bobby slipped out of his clothes and into 
a dressing-gown to resume his work on the Hudson journal. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION _ 157 


It was the beginning of a new chapter which took the reader 
into the author’s confidence more intimately than before, 
as if, having met the latter halfway by the very act of pro- 
ceeding with the translation, the legatee of the book was 
now on new terms of comradeship. 


It is important that you should know how serious are the 
conditions to be met by any man who hopes to increase his own 
power by way of the technique I pursued under instructions 
from Randolph. 

I must mention them, at this juncture, because it is quite 
possible these words may be read by some impulsive enthusiast 
who, eager to avail himself of the large rewards promised, may 
attempt experiments from which he will receive neither pleasure 
nor benefit; and, dismayed by failure, find himself worse off in 
mind than he was before. 

Indeed, this was my own experience at first, Randolph hav- 
ing neglected to warn me that certain conditions were imperative 
to success. I learned them by trial and error. 

It must be borne in mind, at the outset, that no amount of 
altruistic endeavor -— no matter how costly — can possibly bene- 
fit the donor, if he has in any manner neglected the natural and 
normal obligations to which he is expected to be sensitive. Not 
only must he be just before attempting to be generous; he must 
figure this particular investment of himself as a higher altruism, 
quite other than mere generosity. 

Every conceivable responsibility must have had full atten- 
tion before one goes in search of opportunity to perform secret 
services to be used for the express purpose of expanding one’s 
personality that it may become receptive of that inexplicable 
energy which guarantees personal power. 

My own life had been set in narrow ways. I had had but 
small chance to injure or defraud, even had I been of a scheming 
disposition. There had been a minimum of buying and selling 


158 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


in my program. I had lived mostly under strict supervision — 
in school, in college and as an interne — with no chance to make 
many grave or irretrievable blunders. 

Once I began to discharge my obligations, however, it was 
startling to note how considerably I was in the red. For ex- 
ample: I found that there were a good many men, scattered 
here and there, who had been scratched off my books. Either 
actually, or to all practical intents, they had been told to go to 
hell. In some cases, there had been enough provocation to 
justify my pitching them out of my life, I thought. But, more 
often than otherwise, they were to be remembered as persons 
with whom I had sustained some manner of close contact — 
close enough to make a disruption possible. I discovered that 
almost without exception the people I had pushed away from 
me — consigned to hell, if you like — were once intimately asso- 
ciated with me. . . . So far as I was concerned they had gone 
to hell taking along with them a very considerable part of me! 

To lose a friend in whom one had invested something of 
one’s personality was, I discovered, to have lost a certain amount 
of one’s self. 

The successful pursuit of the philosophy now before you 
demands that you restore whatever of your personality has been 
dissipated, carted off by other people. If any of its essential 
energy has been scattered, it must be recovered. 

The original proposer of this theory, aware of the importance 
of insuring against such losses, advised that all misunderstandings 
should be settled on the spot. When an estrangement takes a 
friend out of your normal contacts with him, he leaves with part 
of you in his hand. You must gather up these fragments of 
yourself, by some hook or crook, so that you have at least all of 
the personality that rightfully belongs to you, before you attempt 
its larger projection. 

In the next place: you may make the mistake of seeking far 
and wide for opportunities to build yourself into other personali- 
ties through their rehabilitation. A happy circumstance kept me 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 159 


from doing that. Strangely enough, the first really important 
service I was permitted to do, prefatory to experimenting with 
this mysterious dynamic, was for the daughter of the man who 
had shown me the way to it. . . . I risked what small repute 
I had, and put a mortgage on whatever I might hope to acquire, 
by the performance of an operation that saved her life, and, 
quite incidentally, brought me three pages of comment in the 
next edition of the Medical Encyclopedia. 


Bobby left his papers as they were, dressed carefully, called 
a taxi, and proceeded to Gordon’s. He had no one definite 
answer to give to himself for his sudden decision. If queried, 
he would have had to say that there came a moment when 
he felt he was needed at Gordon’s. Certainly he was not 
going in quest of pleasure. 


ES 


His arrival at the famous cabaret could not have been 
better timed. An hour earlier he would have found a noisy, 
chaffing welcome at a table of silly and excited friends hope- 
ful of seeing him as drunk as themselves; half resentful of 
his appearance sober. 

Because it was a festival night, the cabaret’s bill of amuse- 
ments was more elaborate than usual. 

The girl chorus, obviously much the worse for the holiday 
hospitality — during intermissions they were accorded many 
courtesies at the tables of diners — were softly caterwauling 
the refrain of a popular opera song, while a huge fellow, 
open-shirted, velvet-trousered and bandanna-ed in a bandit 
role, held the spot-light with a solo dance. 

Aleppo was the headliner on the bill. Primarily an acro- 
bat and strong man, with fancy dancing and a bit of florid 


160 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


song to supplement his feats of agility and strength, Aleppo’s 
versatility was acknowledged with tumultuous applause. 
Smug satisfaction and self-assurance were spelled in every 
line of his swarthy face as he executed his intricate dance 
steps. 

Bobby waited, just inside the entrance, until the number 
should be finished. He was too far from the stage to hear 
Aleppo’s announcement. Some time afterward, he learned 
that the cad had called for a volunteer dancing partner from 
the audience. A tall blonde, in blue chiffon, was unsteadily 
mounting the steps to the stage. She lurched into the big 
dancer’s arms, and he swung her into rhythm with him in a 
fast and furious fox-trot. The girl was Joyce Hudson. 

The crowd cheered them lustily. The orchestra took fresh 
interest. The chorus receded to give them room. 

Eager to offer a final thrill to his audience, the huge 
Aleppo lifted his amateur team-mate to his shoulder. No 
one but an experienced acrobat could have met the situation 
gracefully. Aleppo continued to spin about the stage with 
light steps. His burden meant nothing to him. Dizzily 
drunk, Joyce swayed, clutched at Aleppo’s shaggy head for 
support, and sank back limply over his shoulder, while he, 
with big, muscled arms encircling her knees, revolved like a 
top, quite as if the act had been rehearsed, and he need 
have no concern about his partner’s safety. Joyce’s hair 
stood straight from her head and her arms wildly groped as 
the rapid revolutions of the dancer whirled her through 
the air. 

Bobby could not remember later how he arrived at the 
stage. ‘There was some ruthless elbowing through the crowd, 
chairs upset, tables pushed aside, as he made his way. He 
ran up the steps and confronting the dancer with an out- 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 161 


stretched arm commanded him tostop. His face was grim and 
pale. With an ironical smile, Aleppo eluded the intruder, 
and. Bobby rushed him. Pandemonium broke loose among 
the tables, and the diners jostled about the foot of the stage. 

Tom Masterson forced his way through the crowd, climbed 
the steps, and clutched at Bobby’s sleeve. 

“What the hell’s the matter with you?” he screamed. 
“Tf Joyce wants to have a bit of fun with this fellow, what 
business is it of yours? ”’ 

The orchestra had stopped now. Aleppo put Joyce down, 
and she crumpled on the floor. Several girls from the 
chorus bent over her, and one ran for water. 

With a pugilistic swagger, Aleppo strode forward. His 
beady little eyes flashed dangerously. His pugnacious jaw 
seemed coming along somewhat in advance of him. His big 
fists were clenched. Baring his teeth in a crooked grin, he 
snarled: ‘“‘ Now! — You’re so damned anxious to get into 
trouble — ” 

** Look out! ”’ shouted Masterson, ‘‘ Don’t do that! ” 

* Sock him! ” yelled some youngster from the crowd. 

Aleppo advanced belligerently until he was within reach 
of a surprise. 

There were three quick, crunching blows in his face, a 
right to his left eye, a left to his right eye, and a right to the 
point of his chin. The big fellow’s knees buckled under him, 
and he collapsed without a sigh. 

It was very quiet at Gordon’s for a moment. Everybody 
was stunned by the sudden turn of events. 

Roughly pushing Masterson aside, Bobby turned to 
Joyce, stooped and gathered her up in his arms, and started 
down the steps of the stage, the crowd falling back to make 
way for him. 


162 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 
‘Just a minute!” shouted Masterson, pursuing him. 
** [ll take care of her. You needn’t be so officious! ” 

Bobby turned toward him, and said in a low voice, ‘“‘ You 
should have taken care of her a little sooner! ” 

Masterson was in a drunken rage over his humiliation. 

** Well — if you think you can get away with that — ” 

He clutched Bobby’s throat, ripping off his collar; clawed 
at his hair; his cuff-link dug deeply into his friend’s cheek, 
and the blood flowed freely, dripping from his jaw to his 
shirt bosom. 

Supporting his limp charge with his left arm, Bobby let 
loose a short-arm jab at the pit of Masterson’s none too able 
stomach, which demoted him to the ranks of the noncombat- 
ants, and, taking Joyce again in his arms, marched forward, 
pushing chairs and tables out of his way with their bodies. 

At the door, the burly head waiter barred his progress. 

“* Did you bring this young lady here? ” 

“No! But I am taking her away! ” 

** Well — not so fast! Let’s look into this! ” 

Again Bobby lowered Joyce’s feet to the floor, steadied 
her with his left arm, and growled, “‘ Open that door! I 
have no intention of mixing it with anybody else here to- 
night, but if you try to stop me I’ll put you to sleep along- 
side your little friend up there.” 

The bruiser hesitated. Someone shouted, “‘ Let him go, 
before the joint gets pinched! He’ll see‘her home! Here — 
take her coat!” 

o> > 


The crisp blast of cold air swept Joyce back to partial 
consciousness. 
A waiting taxi drove up under the porte-cochére. Bobby 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 163 


lifted her in, told the grinning driver to head east on the 
boulevard and he’d let him know presently where they 
wanted to go, and seated himself beside her. 

Confusedly she recognized him, looked up dully into his 
face and mumbled thickly, ‘‘ Oh, Bobby, you came at last, 
didn’t you? I’ve waited so long! I’ve wanted you so! ” 

She nestled her head against his shoulder, and he put his 
arm around her, spared the necessity of replying, for her 
revival was brief. In a moment she slumped and slept. 

Now he’d got her, what should he do with her? It oc- 
curred to him he might take her some place and sober her 
up before presenting her at home, an idea he instantly re- 
jected. She wouldn’t be even approximately normal for 
hours. Joyce was drunk, and no mistake! ... Had he 
really done her a good turn with his swashbuckling excur- 
sion into her affairs? Perhaps it would result in more damag- 
aA oa for her than had she been left to go her own 

. Co “ae he and Tom Masterson ever be friends 
ait P btful. 

The adiver turned his head for definite instructions, and 
Bobby gave Joyce’s address. He’d have to take her home. 
Maybe he could put her into the house without stirring it 
up. He shook her awake as they neared her corner. 

“¢ Joyce! Where is your house-key? ” 

She began to fumble with her coat, and, acting on the 
clue, he discovered it in an inside pocket. The taxi drew 
up at the curb and the driver obeyed his fare’s order to 
shut off the engine and wait. 

Rousing, as the cold air rushed in ‘through the opened 
door, Joyce twined her arms about Bobby’s neck and kissed 
him on the cheek. He was pecan: but she was too far 


gone to notice. U. S. 0. PE 


NATIONAL CATHOUC CCMMUNITY SERVICE 
SEATTLE, WASH, UNIT 


164 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


It was easier to carry than drag her. The front door was 
quickly reached, opened and closed quietly. He remem- 
bered the appointments of the house. Depositing her on 
the davenport in the living-room, he drew off her slippers 
and covered her with a heavy steamer rug. Her face was 
bloody. That would undoubtedly call for explanations 
which would drag out the whole story, adding even more 
discredit to her plight and more chagrin to someone else 
whose dignity better deserved protection. 

Presuming there must be a lavatory on the main floor, he 
looked about for it, and having made experimental forays 
into two coat closets, finally discovered the little wash room 
off the library; dampened a towel, and was on his way back 
with it when he heard a throaty voice that had never quite 
left his consciousness. It so completely bridged the weeks 
that it seemed to take on exactly where it had left off, ‘‘ Good- 
night, then — and thank you so much! ” ** Joyce, 
you’ve been hurt! ” 

There was no reply . . . anda moment’s silence. Doubt- 
less she was noticing the light in the library. Perhaps she 
had observed his coat, tossed across a chair. He decided 
not to be caught in ambush. . . . They met at the door. 

She seemed not quite so tall as he had remembered her, 
possibly because the little red and black slippers had lower 
heels. The disarray of her bobbed head, her tousled bangs, 
made her look like a child suddenly roused from sleep, to 
which juvenile effect her suit of Japanese pajamas con- 
tributed — black with red poppies, buttoned high about her 
throat. Bobby was aware of the exquisiteness of her en- 
semble, but all that he saw distinctly was her bewildered 
blue eyes searching his with mystification. 

On sight of him, she gasped with surprise; put the back 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 165, 


of her hand to her lips as if warding off a blow; stared in- 
quiringly at his blood-smeared cheek. 

“* Why — it’s you!” she whispered. ‘‘ Whatever are you 
doing here? ”’ 

“JT brought Joyce home. . . . I’m sorry I startled you. 
. . . ’d rather hoped we might not have to disturb you.” 

** But I thought she was going away with Mr. Masterson. 
Was he hurt? You’ve been, I see! Was there an accident? ” 

** Something like that. . . . Nothing serious at all... . 
And Joyce isn’t hurt. She’s just —just pretty tired and 
sleepy.” 

** Her face is bloody. . . . You were going to do some- 
thing about it, I notice.” 

He handed her the towel. 

‘You'll find she’s not hurt. That blood she rubbed off 
of me when I brought her in. I thought I would wash it off 
so you wouldn’t be alarmed when you saw her.” 

For a long moment they stood gazing, appraisingly, into 
each other’s eyes — hers wide with curiosity, hurt with dis- 
appointment, but half sympathetic; his, eloquent with 
appeal for suspended judgment; both of them at a loss for 
words to meet their predicament; unable to release them- 
selves from this speechless recognition of their brief com- 
radeship’s claims. 

“So — you knew you were coming to my house, then. 

Perhaps you’ll tell me who you are. . . . You didn’t 
say — that other time.” 

Into Helen’s eyes, and, an instant afterward, upon her 
lips, there came the suggestion of a smile. Bobby hesitated: 
then blurted out, “‘ Merrick.” 

“So you’re Bobby Merrick!” Her eyes narrowed. She 
dug her little fists into her ribs with a defiance that would 


166 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


have seemed deliciously absurd had the occasion been less . 
serious; for she had not been naturally cast for tragic réles 
and her costume was everything but militant. “‘ You hadn’t 
brought us enough trouble, had you? What we’d been 
through wasn’t quite sufficient! You must add a little hu- 
miliation to it! You’ve brought Joyce home to me drunk! 
You look as if you had been drinking, too! . . . Fighting, 
weren’t you? ... If you could only see yourself! ... Oh! ” 

“Yes —I know. I’m not very pretty to look at — and 
the evidence isn’t good. Joyce will tell you all about it in 
the morning. . . . Meant it all right. . . . Sorry.” 

** You’d better go now.” 

He caught up his top-coat. 

** It’s too bad! ”? he muttered, half to himself, as he passed 
her. 

As if he were already out of the house, Helen sank down 
on the davenport at Joyce’s feet, put both hands over her 
face and cried like a little child threatened with punishment. 
It was a devastating scene. She seemed so pitiably alone, 
so desperately in need of a friendly word. 

With arrested step, Bobby regarded her with a deeper 
compassion than he had ever experienced, swept again with 
that strange sense of their belonging. He turned and took 
a hesitating step toward her. Suddenly aware of him and 
divining his thought, she slowly shook her head. 


“No. ... There’s nothing you can do for us. 
but go!” 

His voice was torn with pity. 

“I can’t leave you this way. . . . Am I to remember 


you — always — sitting in a crumpled little heap — crying 
because I had hurt you?’ He bent over her with extended 
hand. “ Say good-night to me, won’t you? ” 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 167 


Her eyes traveled up to his face. 

“ You're still bleeding,”’ she said dully. ‘‘ Better do some- 
thing. . . . Go in there and wash it off.” 

Tossing aside his coat, Bobby returned to the little lava- 
tory, disinterestedly mopped at his stains and flung down 
the towel, bitterly. ... She was waiting in the open 
doorway when he turned; leaning limply back against the 
door-post, face upturned, eyes closed, with a roll of surgical 
bandage, adhesive tape, and scissors in her hands. 

“You’re mighty thoughtful.” He reached for the 
dressings. 

““ Not at all,” she said evenly, ignoring his gesture. “ I’d 
do as much for a hurt dog. . . . I was too upset to notice 
that you really needed attention. . . . Come over here to 
the light. I'll try to fix you.” 

He followed her to the table. With deft fingers she shaped 
a gauze pad, sheared off some strips of tape, and gave her 
attention to his torn cheek with all the impersonal interest 
of a veteran nurse in a charity clinic. . . . The sleeves of 
her jacket slipped back as she reached up. . . . The touch 
of her hands on his face, the warm nearness of her, the little 
tremulous catch in her throat when she breathed, set his 
heart racing furiously. 

“ There! ”’ she said at length, lifting the longest lashes he 
had ever seen, and looking inquiringly into his eyes, ‘‘ Does 
that feel better? ” 

> > 


Hours afterward, when her tempest of indignation had 
subsided through sheer fatigue, her self-reproaches began to 
eclipse the scorn she felt for him. 

Exquisitely tortured, she had lived it over and over again, 


168 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


each second of it — for it had all happened swiftly —- as one . 
who follows the minutia of motion on a slow film. 

Perhaps, had she turned away at once, he might have 
stammered his appreciation and left. . . . How indiscreet 
of her to have looked up, at close range, to inquire, with 
honest solicitude, ‘‘ Does that feel better? ” 

It felt so much better, apparently, that he must express 
his thanks by taking her hand, as it was withdrawn from 
his face, lifting it quickly to his lips. She jerked it away 
from him angrily. ... Later, as she thought it over in 
her chaos of angry shame, she reflected it would have been 
better had she submitted dignifiedly to his impulsive gesture 
of gratitude . . . and signed him to be off. 

He stood humiliated, abased, as if she had struck him a 
blow. ‘Then, huskily, measuring his words, he said, “ | 
wonder if you would have done that to a hurt dog, grateful 
for a little unexpected kindness.” 

What a slyly mean advantage to have taken of her sym- 
pathy — of her instinctive courtesy! 

“That was awfully rude of me. . . . ’ve been through 
a lot, tonight.... I’m not quite myself... . Please 
go — now.” 

She should have commanded; not entreated. 

“IT know you have been cruelly troubled . . . and it 
nearly breaks my heart!” he had said. 

As' she milled it over, with her flushed face buried deep 
in her pillow, she tried to explain how it all happened. For 
an instant, when he had put his arms gently about her, she 
forgot that he was Bobby Merrick. Bobby Merrick was just 
some mythical person she didn’t want to know. She remem-° 
bered only that this was the quiet, pensive, lovable chap 
who had led her like a little child along a dark country — 


¥ 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 169 


lane. . . . And she was so desolately lonely and in need of 
tenderness. 

He softly touched her wet eyes with his handkerchief. . . . 
How could she have stood there, calmly submitting to his 
impudent attentions? . . . What had she been thinking of 
to allow herself to be placed in such an impossible predica- 
ment? What a beast he had been to make capital of her 
yearning for a bit of human kindness . . . at a moment 
when, he knew, her whole world was breaking up under her 
feet! . . . Well, he surely was made aware, before he left, 
what she thought of his despicable treatment of her! . . 
Hadn’t she told him, so bitterly, so scathingly, that he had 
cringed under it? . . . But — that was small balm for her 
injured pride. . . . She had actually stood with her fore- 
head pressed against his arm, while his slim fingers caressed 
her hair, utterly unable to exert her will . . . dreamily 
visioning a thin trickle of fine sand pouring into a small 
red-brown heap at the bottom of an hour-glass . . . and 
wondering how to shut it off. . . . Why —she must have 
been hypnotized! 

“Won’t you forgive me — now? ” he whispered. 

Why couldn’t she have freed herself, smiled; agreed — 
in a matter-of-fact tone, “Tl not hold anything against 
you. Good-night.” . . .She repeated into her pillow sev- 
eral variants of that commonplace, devoutly wishing she 
could remember having said it; trying to persuade herself 
she really had. 

But he had pleaded so wistfully! . . . She had lifted her 
eyes, and her lips were parted to speak a single word of 
friendly assurance when — it happened. . . . And she had 
offered no resistance! . . .Oh — how cheap he must think 
her! How little respect he had had for her — widowed be- 


170 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


cause of him — and, worst of all, he would probably be cad 
enough to imagine that she had responded to his kiss. . . . _ 
It was the haunting fear he might think she had shared it 
that tortured her most. 

Of course — she had done what she could, quickly, sav- 
agely, to reinstate herself in his regard. Breaking free, she — 
had pushed him from her; forbade him ever to speak to her 
again; left the room in a grand state of emotional tumult 
without so much as pausing to glance at the stupified Joyce, 
heavily sleeping through a scene that could not have failed 
to interest her, had she been aware of it. 

Seated before her mirror at nine, gazing remorsefully at 
her haggard reflection, she straightened, stiffly, and said 
aloud, ‘‘ Well, whatever he may care to think, I’m certain 
I didn’t. ” 

> > 


Sleepy servants at the Columbia Club grinned and ex- 
changed winks when Bobby arrived at a quarter of four, 
sullen and disheveled. 

“Teddy,” he growled to the elevator boy, “ bring me a 
bottle of Scotch and a siphon of soda.” 

He disrobed, mixed a stiff drink, and another, and a third, 
in swift succession, scowled hatefully at himself in the bath- 
room mirror and muttered “ Piker!” ... He had for- 
feited the thing he most wanted — the.only thing he wanted 
in this world! . . . Now she would never consent to see 
him again. ... . She had said it, and she meant it. He had 
imposed upon her kindness; had stampeded her into an 
impetuous response to his sympathy which she would regret 
with self-loathing. . . . What was the good of anything — 
now? 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 171 


The Hudson journal lay on the desk where he had left it; 
a sheaf of club stationery beside it, scrawled with rows of 
letters. 

He gave the book a contemptuous push with the back of 
his hand and it fell into the wastebasket. 

** Damned silly nonsense! ”? he muttered. “ To hell with 
all that kind of blah! ” 


XI 


4 Pauateral BE SEATED, MR. MERRICK,” THE SECRETARY HAD 
said, stiffly, twenty minutes ago. “ Dean Whitley is busy 
now.” 

A qualitative analysis of Mr. Merrick’s scowl as he sat 
fidgeting would have resolved it into two parts curiosity, 
three parts anxiety and the remainder annoyance. . . . Of 
chagrin — a trace. 

The note had said eleven, and he had entered while the 
clock was striking. It had not specified what the dean 
wished to see him about. That would have been too much 
to expect. Courtesy and consideration were against the 
rules governing the official action of deans. 

Big universities, like monopolistic public utilities and 
internal revenue offices, enjoyed high-hatting their con- 
stituencies; liked to make an impressive swank with 
their authority; liked to keep people waiting, guessing, 
worrying; liked to put ’em to all the bother possible. 

Mr. Merrick glowered. He glowered first at the large 
photograph of an autopsy suspended above the secretary’s 
desk in the corner. . . . Seven doctors owling it over a 
corpse. All of the doctors were paunchy, their pendulous 
chins giving them the appearance of a covey of white peli- 
cans. ‘They were baggy under the eyes . . . a lot of fat 
ghosts swathed in shrouds. The corpse too was fat. Why 
conduct a post over this bird? Any layman could see at a 
glance what had ailed him — he was a glutton. Let these 
wiseacres take warning in the presence of this plump cada- 
ver, and go on a diet of curds and spinach before some com- 


mittee put them on a stone slab and rummaged in their cold 
172 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 173 


capacious bellies to enhance the glory of materia medica. . . . 
They were the bunk — the whole greasy lot of them! 

Having temporarily finished with the autopsy, Dean 
Whitley’s impatient customer glowered over the titles of the 
big books in the case hard by. . . . Simpson’s Nervous Dis- 
eases . . . the old sap. You had to read his blather in front 
of a dictionary; weren’t ten words in the whole fourteen 
pounds of wood-pulp with less than seven syllables... . 
Mount’s Obsessions. ... Why was it that these bozos 
thought it unscholarly to be intelligible and undignified to 
be interesting? And as for obsessions, old Mount was a nut 
himself — one of these cuckoos that tapped every third tele- 
graph pole with his cane and spat on fireplugs. . . . If he 
missed one, he had to go back, it was said. . . . About the 
same mentality as Fido’s. Well, Mount ought to be an 
authority on obsessions! 

A tall, rangy medic came out of the dean’s sanctum, very 
red but with a jaunty stride, crossed the room in four steps 
and banged the door. . . . Bet it was no new experience 
for that door! 

Distracted from his invoice of the book shelf, Mr. Merrick 
glowered at the bony maiden who rattled the typewriter. 
Smug and surly she was; mouth all screwed up into an 
ugly little rosette, lashless eyes snapping, sharp nose sniffing. 
. . . Easy to see what she was doing — writing a letter to 
some poor boob inviting him to come in at nine and see the 
dean. . . . She ought to add a postscript that he would be 
expected to spend half of a fine June morning in this dismal 
hole waiting for his nibs to finish the Free Press and his nails, 
take his legs off the table, and push a buzzer to let the 
beggar in. 

* Dean Whitley will see you now, Mr. Merrick.” 


174 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


eS. 


“Mr. Merrick,” said Dean Whitley, after Bobby had 
taken the chair recommended to him, “I must have a 
friendly chat with you. During the first few weeks of last 
semester, you gave promise, I am informed, of an excep- 
tionally interesting career in the medical profession. Shortly 
after the mid-semester examinations, which I see you passed 
with the highest marks of your class, you began to slip. 
You quickly used up all your cuts. You became disinterested 
and disgruntled. What’s the trouble? ” 

“T think you'll find I’ve been doing average work, sir.” 

Dean Whitley shook a long, bony finger. 

“Exactly! Average work! Do you hanker to be an 
average doctor? ” 

** Well — when you put it that way — of course not.” 

The dean tilted back in his swivel-chair and clasped his 
hands behind his head. 

‘Your case is somewhat unusual, Merrick. You are the 
heir apparent to a large fortune. You did not have to seek 
a vocation. It was a surprise to all your friends that you 
came here. Your line of least resistance was polo. But you 
plunged into your work with an enthusiasm that put the 
whole first-year class on its toes and challenged the in- 
structional corps to offer the best it had. Now — precisely 
what has happened to your spirit? Is there anything we 
can do to put you in the running again? ” 

Bobby twisted the links of a platinum watch-chain, head 
hanging. 

** You’re quite right, Dean Whitley. I suppose it was the 
novelty kept me alive at first.” 

“Yes — but see here!” The dean reversed a sheaf of 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 175 


tabulations and pushed it across the table. “ Just follow 
that line from opening day to the Thanksgiving recess, and 
there isn’t a cut! You didn’t flick a class! . . . Pursue it 
the rest of the way and see what you did to your scholastic 
credit! . . . What happened to you on or about Thanks- 
giving? . . . Perhaps you should be treated for it — what- 
ever it was. You’re too promising to lose if we can save you! ” 

“| just got tired of it. Too much drudgery.” 

*“ It wasn’t drudgery before!” 

* Well — I think I began to notice that it was, about that 
time.” 

* Ever think of giving it up? ” 

“Oh — no, sir! I can’t do that! ” 

“Why not? You don’t aspire to be a mere second-rater, 
do you? ” 

“T suppose Ill have to content myself with that. Ill 
have plenty of company, won’t I? ” 

The dean fiddled with a paper-knife and looked down his 
nose glumly. 

“This is very disappointing! . . . Sure you don’t want 
to give me your full confidence and let me try to help you? ” 

Bobby moved to the edge of his chair, and took up his hat. 

“There’s nothing you can do, sir. Thank you for your 
interest. Ill try to do better.” 


Se 


On the front steps he met Dawson, a first-year medic with 
whom he had a mere nodding acquaintance. Dawson was 
a lean-faced, hollow-eyed, shabby chap, who had a desperate 
time of it trying to keep up. Slightly older than the average, 
more was expected of him than he was able to deliver. Not 


176 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


infrequently he was scornfully panned by his instructors who 
seemed to enjoy watching him wince under their satirical 
jabs. 

A question, having been muffed by three or four, would 
be tossed at him in some such fashion as, “‘ And of course 
you wouldn’t know, would you, Mr. Dawson?” Seven 
times out of nine, he wouldn’t. Bobby’s sympathy had been 
excited, occasionally. . . . What were they trying to do to 
the poor devil? . . . Drive him into the river? 

“ Hello, Merrick! . . . Been deaning? ” 

“* Oh yes,” said Bobby brightly. ‘‘ But not in the way you 
probably suspect. You see, the dean and I meet frequently 
for a game of cribbage. He’s good too. I presume you’re 
having tea with him presently? ” 

Dawson was grim. 

** Naw — I’m going in to tell him I’m through and that 
they can all go to hell!” 

“That would be a great blunder, Dawson.’ Bobby be- 
came owlishly didactic. ‘“‘ They might go—and where 
would that leave you? You see, my son, every time you 
send a man to hell, with whom you have had close personal 
contacts, he takes part of you along with him. And then, 
some fine day, when things are ever so much better with 
you, and you need to collect all there is of your scattered 
personality for some noble purpose, a considerable chunk 
of you is missing — and — and you .have to go to hell 
after it.” 

“What’s the big idea? Trying to kid me? If so, don’t! 
I’m in no mood for it. . . . Up to the last ditch — if you 
don’t mind my weepin’ on your neck! ” 

“‘ How about a bite of lunch together? ” suggested Bobby, 
amazed at his own proposal of hospitality to this morose, 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 177 


threadbare fellow. ‘All you’re seeing him for is to tell 
him to go to hell. Put it off till tomorrow. He won’t object 
to the delay.” 

Yielding with a crooked smile to Bobby’s persuasion, 
Dawson fell into step. 

*“* Anything you’d like to get off your chest? ” inquired 
his host, after their order had been given. “ Perhaps you’d 
enjoy singing a few verses of your hymn of hate. If so, go 
to it—and Ill join you in the chorus where the fancy 
damning comes in.” 

“Thanks, Merrick. You’re a good sort. Perhaps it 
wouldn’t be bad for me to let off steam. I'll tell you a little 
about it. . . . I always wanted to be a surgeon . . . prat- 
tled about it as a child . . . never thought of anything else 

. . thought of it as a novitiate in holy orders thinks of his 
vocation! . . . After college, I was out for three years 
trying to scrape up enough to bring me back. . . . Got 
discouraged; gave it up; fell in love; married. The girl 
revived the old hope in me. ... Worked like dogs — 
both of us; she in an office, I selling bonds. . . . So we 


came, last September. . . . She found a job. ... Then 
the baby came. . . lot of expenses. Living was higher 
than we figured. . . . I began to work down town nights 
in a bowling-alley . . . setting pins for freshmen to knock 


down one at a time. . . . How’s that for your inferiority 
complex? ” 

“Well, it certainly wouldn’t drive a man into a state of 
hallucinatory omnipotence; that’s sure! ” 


“* A woolly caterpillar! . . . That’s what it made of me! 
. . . No wonder I was a dunce! . . . And now —as if I 
hadn’t already enough to ... But — hell — what’s the 


good of talking about it? ” 


178 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


“Drive on!”? commanded Bobby. “It’s no farther 
through to the other side than to back out. Let’s have the 
rest of it. You were a caterpillar and a dunce — and now 
you’re something else again? ... What’s happened 
lately? ” 

** My wife is sick. No— nothing acute. Just fagged and 
undernourished and neurotic; says she’s a dead weight on 
me and wishes she were dead. She’s brooding over it. I’m 
half afraid to go home for fear I’ll find that she has destroyed 
herself! ”” 

** She should be out in the country for the summer,” ad- 
vised Bobby. “‘ Fresh air, good milk, sunshine.” 

“‘ Might as well suggest a trip to Europe,” muttered Daw- 
son. ‘“‘ We’ve nothing.” 

** Hasn’t she people she could go to for the summer? ” 


*“ Nobody. . . . There’s a tight old step-father who threw 
her out when she married me. He’d picked a yokel for her 
who lived in the neighborhood. . . . My mother is a widow, 


living with my sister, up state. They’re poor too and 
crowded.” 

“* How about a little loan? You’re not always going to be 
on your uppers. Almost anybody would consider that a 
safe investment, I should think.” 

“ T don’t know any one I could approach with a proposi- 
tion like that.” 

Bobby’s guest ate hungrily. His hand trembled when he 
cut his meat. 

“I have a little money that isn’t in use just now.” 

Dawson shook his head. 

“No! — By God, I didn’t tell you my story with the hope 
of panhandling some money out of you. You’re probably 
like all the rest of the medics — just scraping along. .. . 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 179 


Thanks all the same, old man... . It’s mighty generous 
of you. . . . No— I’m going to give it up and get a job! * 

‘You didn’t understand me, Dawson. I didn’t mean to 
propose handing you the price of next week’s groceries. I’d 
like to lend you, say, five thousand dollars.” 

Here was one chap that had accepted him as a pal in 
poverty. . . . Natural enough, though. Dawson had had 
his nose to the grindstone; kept aloof from the others. He 
needn’t have heard that there was a wealthy student in the 
class. . . . And this interview had not been of his seeking. 

“You mean that? ” 

“Of course! ... You didn’t think I’d joke with you 
about a business matter involving five thousand dollars, 
did you? ” 

Bobby would never have suspected the fellow of so much 
sparkle and spontaneous wit. He expanded as if some 
miracle had been performed on him. 

“* Merrick,” he said solemnly, as they reached the street. 
“You’ve come near saving a couple of lives today! .. . 
Mind if I run home now? . . . I’ve got to tell her! . . . I 
say — wouldn’t you like to come along? ” 


OPS 


They were a shabby pair of rooms on the third floor of a 
third-rate apartment house over north of the big hospital, 
disorderly with the clutter incident to an attempt to make a 
bed-room, dining-room, nursery and kitchen of such cramped 
quarters. 

Marion Dawson had no apologies to offer for the appear- 
ance of her house. Bobby liked her for that. He was in- 
stantly delighted with this pale, tawny-haired, hazel-eyed 


180 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


young woman who gave him a man’s hand-grip and un- 
loaded a chair for him without a flurry of embarrassment. 
The baby was dug up for inspection and greeted the visitor 
with big, blinking eyes, amusingly like his father’s. Having 
had no experience with babies, Bobby regarded this one 
with something of the same solemn interest it bestowed on 
him. Marion laughed. 

“You can’t get acquainted with him that way,” she ex- 
claimed. ‘“ You’ve got to boo at him, or something! He 
expects it, you know. He wouldn’t think of making a little 
ass of himself by booing at you; but he’ll be dreadfully dis- 
appointed if you don’t make some idiotic noises at him.” 

Bobby knew he was going to like this girl. 

““ Marion,” said Dawson, with an unsteady voice, “ Mr. 
Merrick is going to lend us some money. He says we’re a 
good risk. I’m not sure about me; but I know you are.” 

She dropped her air of banter and stared at their guest 
for a long moment, trying to realize the significance of her 
husband’s announcement; then said, with deep feeling, ‘‘ So 
— after all we’ve been through — Jack is to have his chance, 
at last!’ She put a hand on hisshoulder. “ Dear boy! .. . 
It has been so long — so hard for you! ” 

She reached out her left hand to Bobby and clasped his 
with grateful fingers. ‘‘ What a lovely thing for you to do! ” 
she said. 

“‘ Oh — everybody has his troubles,” stammered Bobby, 
hoping the situation would be spared a debauch of senti- 
mentality. ‘ The least trouble in the world is a shortage of 
money.” 

““ Unless one hasn’t any,” chuckled Dawson. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 181 


SS: 


Bobby arrived late in the little amphitheatre of the surgical 
clinic, that afternoon. The operation proved of exceptional 
interest. He found himself leaning far forward. That night, 
he almost enjoyed his Brill. Before he went to bed at one, 
he wrote to Nancy Ashford, to whom he had owed a letter 
for weeks. 

**T had a very interesting visit today with a young medic 
and his wife — the Dawsons —” his second page began; 
but, after looking at the words critically for a moment, he 
crumpled the page and started a fresh one with no mention 
of the Dawsons. 

‘Have you ever deciphered the rest of the journal? ” 

He had sent it back to her with the brief statement that 
he didn’t care to bother any farther with it. . . . He wasn’t 
the right type to pursue any such philosophy with hope of 
pleasure or profit, he said, and it really wasn’t sporting to read 
it for curiosity’s sake — especially after Doctor Hudson’s re- 
quest that one stop when one’s personal interest had flagged. 

“Perhaps you will tell me, at least in a general way, how 
it all came out if you completed it. . . . I learn, in reading 
about unusual obsessions, that a marked mystical tendency 
occasionally shows up in the minds of very materialistic 
people who deal practically, otherwise, with all their in- 
terests. I dare say Doctor Hudson was a typical case.” 

Two days later he had her reply. 

““Mrs. Hudson has the journal now, along with all the 
other things we kept for her in the office safe. I doubt if 
she has made any effort to discover what it’s about. Per- 
haps she hasn’t opened the box in which she received them. 
At all events, she has not queried me, as she might have 


182 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


done if she had been mystified by the code... . I feel 
confident she would let you have the book, now that your 
interest in it is revived. 

“* Yes, I deciphered the rest ofit. . . . An amazing record! 
. . . If it were done into a book, it would sell a hundred 
thousand! People would pronounce it utterly incredible, 
of course; but they would read it — and heartily wish it 
were true. And I have a notion they would be sneaking 
off to make experiments, no matter how they might have 
giggled when discussing the theory with their friends. 

**T wish I dared tell you . . . you know why I cannot 

. about the quite startling experiences I myself have had 
lately. . . . It’s all true, Bobby. You do get what you 
want that way, if what you want contributes to the larger 
expression of yourself in constructive service. . . . You even 
get letters that had been so long delayed you wondered if 
you’d been forgotten. . . . Does that sound foolish? ”’ 

It sounded foolish. 

“T’m sorry,” mused Bobby, folding the letter. ‘‘ Nancy 
had such an interesting mind. Now she’ll be goofy for the 
rest of her life. . . . Glad I stopped the bally nonsense be- 
fore it got me.” 

He smiled bitterly over Nancy’s suggestion that he ask 
Mrs. Hudson for the journal. . . . His contrite note of 
apology, dated December first, had not been answered. 
For the first two weeks, he had shadowed the postman. 


> 


On the Sunday morning that young Mrs. Dawson and the 
baby were taken to the country, Bobby, on pressing invita- 
tion, joined the party. 

The place they had chosen was a quiet cottage owned 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 183 


by a middle-aged widow, a few hundred yards from the 
shady shore of Pleasant Lake — an hour’s railroad trip to 
the north. 

Relieved of his long anxiety, Jack Dawson had iost his 
pallor. His step was elastic; his shoulders were squared. 
As for Marion, she was radiant. 

They made a picnic of it, and ate their lunch on the lake 
shore — Jack, junior, left in the custody of Mrs. Plimpton 
who, immediately on being alone with him, decided he 
would be all the better for a bit of old-fashioned rocking 
and a few Gospel songs. 

** Now — none o’ that!” declared Marion, setting out the 
contents of their basket. ‘ You two old doctors have plenty 
of chances to talk wisely about disabled gizzards, all through 
the week. It makes me sick to eat my meals off the operat- 
ing-table, anyway.” 

Apparently they had known nothing of Bobby’s wealth be- 
fore he had interested himself in them. Doubtless they 
knew now. But the Dawsons’ attitude toward him was un- 
changed. There was not a trace of shyness or sycophancy. 
Thoroughbreds — they were. He wished he had a sister 
exactly like Marion Dawson. 

The men took a late afternoon train back to town, separat- 
ing at the station. 

“So long, Bobby,” said Dawson. “ Thanks much for 
coming along. See you soon. Glad the stuff’s going better 
for you. You’ve certainly given me a shot in the arm!” 

“It’s been good for both of us,” said Bobby. 


a < 


That night he carried out a decision he had resolved upon 
the day before. Randolph had seemed able to get all the in- 


184 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


formation he wanted from a certain important page of the 
Galilean report on the one man who apparently knew the 
principles imperative to an expanded personality. Bobby 
considered himself entirely capable of pursuing such re- 
search as Randolph had made. 

He had never owned a copy of the Bible. Yesterday he had 
bought a testament. The salesman had laid out quite an 
assortment. Bobby had chosen a copy that looked more like 
an ordinary secular book than the black ones with limp 
leather covers. His choice was based upon his expectation 
of treating it as he would any other book. 

He leafed in it, back and forth, for a long time before he 
came upon the particular thesis which the sculptor had con- 
sidered important to a man’s quest of a dynamic personality. 
He read it with as much intensity of concentration as he 
might have studied the map of a strange country through 
which he expected to travel. 

There was a certain quaintness of phrase that intrigued 
him and commanded his interest. On and on he read, far 
into the night, without weariness. The little book amazed 
him. When and if he had thought about it at all, he had 
considered this ancient document a jumble of soporific plati- 
tudes, floating about in a solution of Jewish superstitions, and 
accepted by simple-minded people as a general cure-all for 
their petty anxieties and a numbing narcotic to dull their 
sense of wanting what they couldn’t have. 

It was rapidly becoming apparent to him that here was 
one of the most fascinatingly interesting things he had ever 
read. Not only was it free of the dullness he had ascribed 
to it; it kept hinting of secrets — secrets of a tremendous 
energy to be tapped by any man with sense enough to accept 
the fact of it as he would any other scientific hypothesis, 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 185 


and accord it the same dignity, the same practical tests he 
might pursue in a chemical or physical laboratory. 

It was astounding to feel that he had in his hand the 
actual textbook of a science relating to the expansion and 
development of the human personality. How queer that 
people seemed bent upon setting it to music, and drawing 
long faces while they piously intoned it! How ridiculous! 
And how unfortunate! This wasn’t the libretto for grand 
opera, or epic stuff to meter into maudlin little hymns! 
This was a profound, scientific thesis! The very act of 
chanting it would be proof you didn’t know what it was 
about! 

> o> 


One of Merrick’s most important discoveries, that night, 
was the fact that unlike the usual scientific dissertation, 
which would be accessible only to the trained mind, there 
was enough of simple counsel in the book to be of high ad- 
vantage to the least sophisticated. It was not a treatise 
intended for highbrows. But it was plain to see that the po- 
tential constituency of the book was sharply classified into 
groups. With the utmost candor, the Galilean had postu- 
lated three types of general capacity related to one another 
as 5:2:1. He had been entirely frank about saying to his 
intimates, in an intensive seminar session, that there were 
certain mysteries he could and would confide to them which 
he had no intention of discussing before the general public 
for the reason that the majority of people would be unable 
to understand. 

He noted, also, with keen interest, the numerous occasions 
when the Galilean, having performed a service for someone, 
would ask him, as a special favor, not to tell anybody about it. 


186 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


** Practicing his own theories, all right! ” 

It was clear, from the record, that men became interested 
in this strange, uncanny power by various processes of in- 
troduction to it. One man would see the remarkable power 
and beauty of it in the hands of another, and would resolve 
to have it for himself if it cost him his last dime. The matter 
was stated pictorially in a fable concerning a man who saw 
a pearl in another man’s hands and sold everything he had 
to buy it. It was further stated that occasionally a man 
came upon this almost incredible thing by sheer accident. 
There was a story of a traveler who, while taking a short cut 
across a field, stumbled upon a treasure chest. The book 
did not say what was in the chest. It just reported that the 
traveler gave up his journey, went home, converted every- 
thing he had into funds, came back, and bought that field. 

But nothing struck Bobby more forcibly than the con- 
stantly reiterated advice to approach life audaciously. Any- 
thing a man really wanted, he could have if he hammered 
long enough at the doors behind which it was guarded. If 
he didn’t get it, it was because he hadn’t wanted it badly 
enough! No matter how patently futile it was to continue 
battering the door, any man who wanted anything earnestly 
enough could open any kind of a door! 

““ Got to have bloody knuckles,” reflected Bobby, “‘ before 
you can say you tried it and it wouldn’t work! ” 

The fable accompanying this proposition told of a poor 
widow, with no influence at all, who wanted justice from a 
rich man. The judge was an utter rascal. The woman had 
no attorney, no friends, and no case; but she kept coming 
until she wore the judge out. 

He found himself entering more and more confidently 
into the mood of the man who had proposed these principles 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 187 


of what he called a more abundant life, particularly struck 
by his poise and audacity. 


en, I Kee 


At length, he closed the book and closed his eyes. He 
was not conscious of formulating a definite request. Had 
anybody told him he was praying, he would have been 
greatly surprised. He was endeavoring to construct a mental 
image of the kind of a man who might be likely to have pro- 
posed such a philosophy. 

The thing that happened to him came quite without 
further invitation than that. 

As he attempted to analyse it, later, the sensation he ex- 
perienced — the most vivid and vital experience he had ever 
had — was as if a pair of great double-doors, somewhere at 
the far end of a dark corridor in his mind — in his heart — 
in his soul — somewhere inside of him — had quietly parted, 
shedding a soft, shimmering radiance upon the roof, walls 
and pavement of the long hall. The walls were covered 
with maps, charts, diagrams, weapons, and glittering instru- 
ments and apparatus in glass cases. 

It was only a fleeting glimpse. The doors parted but a 
very little way. They quickly closed, and left the corridor 
so dark he could no longer tell where it was. 

Rousing, bewilderedly, he became conscious of a curious 
sense of exultation. Had he been asleep? He did not 
think so. 

He rose and walked unsteadily about the room, trying to 
recover as much as possible of his momentary illusion. 

“Doors! . . . Light behind doors! ... Light shining 
through! . . . I wonder if the corridor was always there — 


188 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


waiting my discovery! . . . Perhaps I can do something to 
open those doors wider. ... I must! ... Well, one 
thing is sure: I’ve seenit! It’s there! It’s real! . . . Maybe 


I'll never get very far with it — but — it can be done! .. . 
Randolph wasn’t as crazy as I thought! ” 


SS 


Next morning, as he was starting to the dean’s office to 
arrange for his summer course in the face of old Nicholas’ 
urgent request that he knock off until September and re- 
turn to Windymere, he received a note from Nancy Ashford. 

*“* Perhaps you’ve read it in the papers, but Ill make sure, 
for I know you will be interested. Friday night, Joyce Hud- 
son and Tom Masterson slipped over to Toledo and were 
married. Mrs. Hudson expects to sail, on Saturday the 
tenth, for Europe. She just called up to inform me of her 
plans. ... Leviathan. ... 1 thought you’d want to 
know.” 

At intervals, all day, he debated the advisibility of sending 
flowers to the ship, and decided against it. She would prob- 
ably consider it an impertinence. No — he had irretrievably 
cut himselfoff. . . . All that he had left now was his mount- 
ing interest in his work, into which he plunged with renewed 
enthusiasm. 


XII 


a WAS NINE O CLOCK IN THE MORNING — EARLY 
September. 

The last of the summer trippers had gone, reluctant to 
leave all this beauty behind them and pledged to a prompt 
return. . . . With their hands filled with bulky bouquets 
of garden flowers, graciously bestowed by long-time servants 
who seemed sincerely regretful over their departure, they 
had edged along the slippery seats of the station bus to make 
room for the tardy, scurrying back from one last look at the 
blue bay from the terrace wall. They would go down the 
hill to Bellagio, cross the bay to Menaggio, and take a 
funny little funicular over the mountain en route west — 
and home. 

The Villa Serbelloni was very quiet, this morning. .. . 
Not that it was at any time a rackety place, even when 
filled to its small capacity. There was something about the 
ineffable tranquillity of the old mansion that slowed one 
down to its leisurely tempo; that mellowed the voice and 
blurred the vision. 

Its atmosphere seemed strangely sedative, giving a curi- 
ous unreality to the whole region. One felt one’s self walk- 
ing about through a Corot. The changing cloud-shadows 
on the mountains and the bay, synchronized with warming 
wisps of autumn breeze, played unaccountable tricks with 
one’s estimates of distances and hours. One never knew 
certainly whether it was Tuesday or Thursday — or cared. 

Somebody had declared it was as if the picture were blurry 

. out of focus. There were no sharp, angular outlines, 


either to the purple hills or the turquoise lake below. The 
189 


190 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


very pebbles on the carriage drive were unreal, each wrapped 
with a tiny, shirmmering aureole of pale opal. . . . Each 
grape, in the shapely clusters dependent from the trellis 
sheltering the breakfast nook, was encircled by an amber 
nimbus as if glowing with some inner radiance. ... An 
excellent place for day-dreaming. 

To appreciate it properly however the guest must bring to 
the little arbor a quiet, unworried mind, else the timeless 
calm of the place would only accentuate the internal tumult. 
. . . Unless one were at peace with himself, here, he could 
be more desperately lonely and depressed than in a desert. 

The arbor was all but deserted. Except for the elderly 
English couple at the last table in the row against the low 
terraced wall, absorbed in their letters, groping occasionally 
for the handles of their coffee cups, Helen Hudson had the 
place to herself. She was so lonesome she watched with 
comradely concern the antics of an ambitious bee that dis- 
puted her right to the little jar of honey. 

It might never be determined where was the next to the 


loveliest spot in the world.... La Jolla? ... Lake 
Louise? . ... The Columbia River Highway? . . . Royal 
Gorge? . . . Grand Canyon? 


During her three years abroad, Helen had successively 
shifted her allegiance from the Grand Canal under a full 
moon to the Upper Corniche Road, the Amalfi Drive, the 
Neckar glimpsed through the tree-tops from the crumbling 
balconies of Heidelberg Castle. 

But there never could be any doubt about the loveliest 
scene in the world. She faced it — Lake Como — from the 
little arbor flanking on the east the Villa Serbelloni, on the 
hillcrest overlooking Bellagio . . . looked at it without see- 
ing it today; for her eyes were preoccupied. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION IgI 


o SS 


Her morning mail had practically confirmed certain 
harassing suspicions. It was reasonably sure now that 
Monty had been manipulating her estate to her serious dis- 
advantage. How to protect herself against grave misfor- 
tune — if indeed that misfortune had not been already 
guaranteed — without plunging her family into disgraceful 
publicity, was too intricate a problem to be solved. 

Not at any time since her commitment of all her affairs 
to Monty, upon his renewed persuasion, a year ago, had his 
remittances been in full of her expectations. 

When, in January, he had written that Northwestern 
Copper was in the midst of a “ reorganization ” which was 
temporarily depressing its value and reducing its dividends, 
she had been disposed — albeit puzzled —to accept his 
statement as correct. She made no pretense of understand- 
ing the explanation he offered with an infinitude of be- 
fuddling detail phrased in a jargon utterly incomprehensible. 
The situation troubled and inconvenienced her, but she had 
tried to believe what Monty said. There was nobody at 
hand to query; no one she cared or dared to consult by 
correspondence. She had made Monty her business agent 
with full power of attorney. She was in his hands to do 
with as he pleased. It was most disturbing. 

In mid-July, he had written lengthily his deep regret and 
disappointment that Northwestern Copper was making so 
slow a recovery; still in a tangle over “‘ reorganization ” 
difficulties, “‘ refinancing ” problems, and “‘ the tiresome de- 
lays of senseless litigation’? — Monty was gifted with an 
extraordinary capacity for redundant ambiguities. In short, 
Northwestern Copper had passed its semi-annual period of 


192 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


accounting to its stockholders without declaring any divi- 
dend at all. . . . He was sorrier than he could say — but, 
of course, it wasn’t his fault. 

Stunned to the realization that she was alone in a foreign 
country without income or any assurance that it might be 
restored, she had spent whole days fretting about her next 
move in this awkward predicament. 

It had occurred to her that something might be liquidated 
of her holdings at Brightwood. She was aware that her in- 
herited stock in the hospital had no market value. It was 
not at all like ordinary commercial or industrial securities. 
The income was small and uncertain; the stock itself being 
worth just what some philanthropic purchaser might be 
willing to pay for it. 

Moreover, there was a sentimental value attached to it 
in her mind. Under no circumstances, short of actual press- 
ing need, would she have consented to part with it. But, 
sentiment or no sentiment, she would have to live. Her 
funds were very low. 

After-a month of worry, she had written to Nancy Ash- 
ford. Rejecting, after some debate, the thought of confid- 
ing the exact state of her affairs, she limited her inquiry to 
the possibility of converting her Brightwood stock into cash 
at the earliest moment a purchaser could be found. Mrs. 
Ashford would be surprised and disappointed, doubtless, 
but she would have to think what she liked about it. The 
real reason could not be divulged. 


Gale 


“ Now — I wonder exactly why she wants to do that? ” 
Nancy had said to Doctor Merrick, upon receipt of it. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 193 


“Surely she has enough to live on. . . . The income on 
her Northwestern Copper can’t be a penny less than six 
thousand a year. . . . Preferred stock . . . sound as Gi- 
braltar. . . . Do you suppose somebody has been defraud- 
ing her? She knows so little about business.” 

** Who’s handling her affairs while she is gone? ” 

““ Nobody — so far as I know. . . . There’s nothing very 
complicated about her business. . . . I think she said her 
brother — her cousin, rather — would assist her in making 
out her income tax report.” 

** D’you know anything about him? ” 

“‘ Not a thing. . . . Might he be handling her money? ” 

“Unlikely. . . . Why should he? . . . Unless she gave 
him carte blanche to buy and sell; and she wouldn’t do 
that.” 

** What shall I say to her, Bobby? ” 

** How much is her Brightwood stock worth? ” 

** Conservatively? ”? Nancy grinned. 

** No — optimistically! — a Micawber appraisal! ”” 

** About twenty thousand, I should think. . . . Want it? ” 

“Yes. . . . You tell her you have contracted to dispose 
of her Brightwood stuff for — for twenty-five thousand 
dollars. . . . Tell her the man wishes to pay for it in 
twenty-five monthly installments. . .. That will insure 
her against being broke, over there; and meantime... ” 

“Yes? . . . Meantime? ” 

Doctor Merrick moved toward the door. 

“ Oh — I don’t know — I’m sure. . . . It’s her affair.” 


Se 


Again Helen took up the long letter she had just received 
from Mrs. Ashford with its life-saving enclosure and the 


194 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


definite promise of more to come. The possession of it 
filled her with misgivings. She had snapped an important 
tie connecting her with Doctor Hudson’s most cherished 
interest. It was like closing a door on something he had 
lived for. 

There was no reproach in the letter, either direct or im- 
plied. . . . Easy to detect a note of anxiety, however. 

“I hope this disposal of your Brightwood stock does not 
mean that your income from other sources is in any way 
depleted. . . . Is there anything you would like to have 
us look after for you? ” 

Following the briefly clear statement of the deal she had 
made, and the terms of the sale, Nancy Ashford had served 
up a potpourri of local news. ... You wouldn’t know 
Detroit! . . . New clubs, new theatres, swagger hotels, 
metropolitan shops! . . . Even the hospital was adding a 
new unit. Plans already drawn. 

“Young Doctor Merrick is with us now. Or perhaps 
you knew that. Of course it is a delight to me to see the 
rapid progress he is making, for I’ve always been interested 
in him. . . . Naturally he has a great advantage over the 
typical interne because, having known from the first day of 
his medical course that he was going in for brain surgery, he 
comes here with more specialized knowledge and experience 
than any other young doctor who ever joined our organiza- 


tion. .‘. . Already Doctor Pyle is treating him with a 
deference that amuses me. (Doctor Pyle is so short with the 
cubs.) . . . Bobby got permission to fit up a little labora- 


tory of his own. There was a small alcove — perhaps you 
recall — just off the main solarium on the top floor. We 
had it partitioned. You should see the apparatus he has 
installed. It’s more of a physical than a chemical laboratory, 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 195 


I think. . . . Glass-blowing! . . . A forge! . . . A blast- 
furnace! .. . All manner of electrical things! ... You 
can’t get any information out of him. . . . I was in there 
yesterday, and asked him if he was making a new radio set, 
and he said, ‘ Something like that.’ . . . But that doesn’t 
mean much when he says it, except that he wishes you 
wouldn’t bother him. 

** Oh — I never had a bigger thrill in my life than at his 
graduation! I had hoped so much for him, all along... . 
And when it came to the big day . . . with his name starred 
on the Commencement program (he hadn’t said a word to 
me about his taking second honors!) well, I just sat there 
and wept silly tears. . . . His mother couldn’t come, so I 
pretended I was his mother. . . . And you should have 
seen his grandfather! Proud? When the class marched 
across the platform for their diplomas, dear old Mr. Merrick 
stood in his seat, trying to wave his handkerchief and blow 
with it at the same time, until somebody pulled him down 
by the coattails.” 

The sheets trembled in Helen’s hands as she read. 

The last line on that page —it was numbered eight — 
had been scratched out, but was still legible: 

““ The young doctor who received — ” 

The next page had been originally numbered twelve. 
That had also been ineffectually deleted in favor of nine. 

On second thought, Nancy Ashford had omitted a con- 
siderable part of her letter. 


Ce > 


“ Here’s that draft for a thousand,” Bobby Merrick had 
said, as he stood by Nancy’s desk. 


196 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


“Thanks. I’ve just finished writing to her. I’ll get it off 


today.” 

“That’s good! ... By the way — you said nothing 
about the Dawsons, did you? ” 

“Why — yes. . . . Rather I’d not?” 

“Leave it out. . . . I don’t think she’d be interested 
much . . . and — well, I have a reason.”’ 


** As you like,”’ said Nancy, hastily extracting the pages 
on which she had written: 

“* first honors is Doctor Merrick’s closest friend. . . . 
Damon and Pythias . . . the kind of a friendship you read 
about! They worked together throughout their medical 
course — same specialty. First honors now carry a prize 
offered by Mr. Owen Simmons (Simmons Turbine Co.) — 
a year in Vienna, all expenses, scholarship, liberal allow- 
ance, etc. . . . The Dawsons were here last Thursday — 
the day your letter came. She was going to New York to 
see her husband off. 

“* Actually, the three of them were like brothers and sister. 
I couldn’t help being jealous. They were closeted here in 
my office for.a whole hour, and when they came out, and I 
met them in the hall, Mrs. Dawson was all excited. She 
seemed so happy that I said, ‘ You look like Christmas 
morning!’ ‘ Why shouldn’t I?’ she replied laughing. ‘ I’m 
going along!® . . . ‘To Europe?’ . . . ‘ Absolutely! ” 

“They have a dear little boy — going on four. I never 
saw a child so beautifully trained. Doctor Merrick went 
along with them to New York and brought little Jack back 
with him to stay at Windymere until Mrs. Dawson returns. 
I dare say old Mr. Merrick can be found, at this minute, 
leading the pony he has bought for him.” .. . 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 197 


a 


There was a letter from Joyce: 

“No, darling, ’m sure you will take no pleasure in 
thinking or saying ‘I told you so.’ For that wouldn’t be 
you. . . . Never a day passes that I do not scourge myself 
for the abominable way I used you that winter when you 
were trying so hard to step in between me and myself. 

*‘ T wasn’t fair to anybody through those days. Not even to 
poor Bobby. I never told you the straight of that. I meant 
to; but, you see, I telephoned to him the next morning and 
asked him to come and see me. I'd a hazy notion that he 
was — well — kind to me the night before, and I thought 
he might renew our friendship. He made some excuse. I 
was hurt and humiliated.. I knew something had happened 
to cause an estrangement between you and Bobby, for — 
can you forgive me, darling? —I noticed a letter you had 
from him shortly afterward, and peeked into it. He wanted 
to be forgiven for causing you a lot of suffering. I knew 
that meant he hadn’t told you all the truth. You thought 
he was in that souse party at Gordon’s, and I just let you 
think so — after he refused to see me again. The honest 
fact was that he went there sober and fought everybody in 
the place to get me out when I was so blind drunk I didn’t 
really learn what it was all about for three days. I know 
Bobby means nothing to you and that you despise him, but 
it’s only fair to him that you should know how he happened 
to bring me home, that Thanksgiving night. 

** No, darling, it’s not any better. It’s never going to be 
any better. I know that now. Tommy can’t help it. One 
night he comes home drunk, surly and obstinate; the next 
night drunk, silly and sentimental; the next night drunk, 


198 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


argumentative and critical; the next night drunk, savage 
and abusive — but always drunk. I can definitely count on 
that! I never know what mood he will be in — whether I 
am to be upbraided for imagined indifference to him and 
his work (little enough he does of it!) or pestered with pre- 
tenses of an affection neither of us feels — but I can always 
be sure of one thing: he will be drunk! 

‘* At first, he claimed he wrote better when stimulated, 
and I believed -him; drank with him — all times of the day, 
in all sorts of places, with all kinds of people. He said it 
helped him to the local color necessary to his story writing. 
I took his word for it. Then I saw that it was rapidly doing 
him up. He was losing his magazine market. His things 
began to ccme back with curt little notes. I hated to nag 
him, but the time came when I had to rebel against being 
dragged about with his greasy crowd of drunken pretenders 
to some sort of literary or artistic talent — would-be’s and 
has-beens! 

““Now he is out on his own, doing little or nothing. 
Thank God, we don’t have to worry about the rent or 
where the next meal 1s coming from. Dear old dad saw to 
that. So long as they continue to mine copper in the Upper 
Peninsula,.Tommy and I can go through the motions of 
living, but it’s dull business and life has gone flat. I would 
leave him tomorrow if it were not that I feel under a sort of 
obligation. I’m as much responsible for his habits as any- 
one. What would you do in my place?” 


<< 


So — nothing whatever ailed Northwestern Copper or 
Joyce would be having trouble with her dividends. She 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 199 


would write to Monty and press some serious questions. 
Had Monty volunteered to look after her business with the 
purpose of appropriating her income? Why had she not 
sought counsel before putting herself at his mercy? There 
were plenty of reliable trust companies. . . . Perhaps there 
was an explanation. . . . Well, he should have his chance 
to offer it . . . verysoon, too! She would write today! .. . 
No—tomorrow. She wasn’t up to it today. ...So he 
was taking Brightwood by storm, was he? ... Glass- 
blowing! . . . Whatever for? . . . What had surgery to 
do with glass-blowing? . . . Why hadn’t he told the truth 
about that episode at Gordon’s? . . . She was glad his 
letter of apology had been too vague for Joyce to under- 
stand. . . . Poor Joyce! 

Gathering up her mail, she arose from the table, smiled 
at old Martino as he drew back her chair, and strolled 
slowly down the winding carriage-drive. The gay little 
parasol refused to share her trouble, and brightened her 
face. She descended the narrow flight of steps to the next 
level of the mountain road that spiraled up from the village; 
followed a graceful arc of it to the second long flight which 
widened to a street flanked by picturesque little shops. 

Yesterday she had promised herself that this morning she 
would make an excursion to the Villa Carlotta. Diagonally 
across the bay, on a heavily wooded shore of indescribable 
beauty, the famous home of an absentee prince was open to 
tourists. . . . Some important Canovas, some rare orchids, 
a wide variety of exotics. . . . She must see them. Every- 
one did. 

There was no lack of attentive service as she stepped down 
into the red-and-blue canopied motor-boat. . . . It required 
many assistants at the little wharf in front of the Villa 


200 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


Carlotta to attend to her disembarkation. The diminutive 
parasol was handed up to the nearest member of the re- 
ception committee, the Baedeker in its leather cover was 
passed to another, the field-glasses on a strap were un- 
slung from her shoulder; and, regretting with a gesture 
of dismay that there was nothing further to take off, she 
reached up both hands and permitted the envied pair who 
remained uncommissioned to help her over the gun- 
wale. 

Smilingly collecting her possessions, she ascended to the 
huge iron gates and into the coolness of the great hall — 
ceiled, walled, floored with white marble. 

A young American woman, about her own age — possibly 
a little older — was seated on a graceful marble bench — 
the only place in the room where one might sit — intent 
upon the famous Cupid and Psyche. She was modish in a 
gray tailored suit with a close fitting gray hat fringed with 
tawny curls. 

With a brief glance they took each other’s measure, 
nodded, smiled. Helen sat down beside her. 

“It’s the best thing he did, don’t you think? ” ventured 
the girl in gray. 


** Exquisite! ” 
Well — she ought to know what things were exquisite, re- 
flected Marion. The word described herself. . . . Some- 


where in this vicinity she expected to meet a young woman 
with blue eyes, long lashes, blue-black hair probably coiffed 
in what was known as a wind-blown bob, a smile as tan- 
talizing as Mona Lisa’s, and a voice that made you think of 
a ’cello. (‘‘ Bobby — for Heaven’s sake!” she had pro- 
tested. ‘‘ Are you sure it isn’t like a heavenly harp?” .. . 
“ Well — something like that,” he had agreed.) 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 201 


“What else is there to see? ” she inquired, after a long 
silence. ; 

““I never was here before,” Helen replied. ‘‘ The gar- 
dens, I think, and some foreign trees and ferns. Shall we 
look? You’re alone, aren’t you? ” 

“* Quite — alone and lonesome.” 

The patter of their heels echoed through the spacious 
corridor as they sought the autumn sunshine. On the terrace 
they hesitated, inquired of an attendant, and took the broad 
path northward through the artfully landscaped gardens. 

“You came over from Bellagio? ” 

She had. Last night she had arrived from Lugano, and 
was stopping at a little hotel in the village. . . . Thought 
she’d stay a week, perhaps. 

“Oh — then you must move up to the Villa Serbelloni. 
I'd be so happy if you did! ” 

Immediately they had disclosed their identities, the bud- 
ding friendship developed with all the rapidity natural to a 
meeting of two lonely fellow-countrymen in a foreign land. 
Young Mrs. Dawson’s story was quickly told. 

“* He'll be all the better for not having me to bother with 
until he settles into his routine,’ she explained. ‘‘ And, 
anyway, it’s my first experience of Europe. I want to 
ramble about and see things.” 

“Queer you should have come to Bellagio direct from 
Paris. I’m glad you did, of course; but there’s nothing 
here but an amazingly fine view. . . . People don’t, you 
know. They go to—oh, down into the chateau country, 
or along the Riviera; Rome, Naples, Florence. . . . How 
did you happen to come here? ” 

“T read about it in a book... long time ago... . 
Always wanted to come here! ” 


202 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


It was fun to search for mutual interests. Doctor Dawson 
had just finished the Medical School in June. His first 
honors had taken him to Vienna. Brain surgery — that 
was his specialty. . . . Helen had had a letter, just this 
morning, from a friend in Detroit who knew intimately the 
young doctor taking second honors in that class. Without 
doubt, Doctor Dawson knew him well. 

** Merrick? ” Marion’s brows wrinkled in an attempt at 


remembrance. ‘‘ Oh, yes — tall, serious chap, wasn’t he? 
But, you never met him — ” 

*“T’ve seen him . . . I think that describes him — pretty 
well.” 

** What a duck of a grotto! . . . Let’s go down! ” 


They descended into the mossy, fern-fringed enclosure 
and rested on the circular stone seat, facing a stucco Pan on 
a graceful pedestal. 

*“ What did he have to be so serious about?” queried 
Helen. ‘“ Surely things should have come easy enough for 
him! ” 

“Do you think he looks serious? . . . Why — he’s the 
most roguish thing I ever saw!.. .. Serious? . . . With 
that impish grin? ” 

** Oh — you mean Pan! . . . He’s a little devil! ” 

“And you were still thinking about young Doctor Mer- 
rick.” Marion pinioned her lower lip in an understanding 
smile and mysteriously half closed one eye. ‘‘ Maybe he 
wasn’t serious, at all. He wouldn’t need to be. Awfully 
rich, isn’t he? ”” 

They wandered on, occasionally coming upon delicious 
surprises — a short flight of worn steps by a wall mantled 
with Banksian roses descending to a shady water-gate —a 
little classic pavilion, the flagging strewn with fugitive yellow 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 203 


leaves. Marion loosed her imagination, prattling of ro- 
mances and intrigues sheltered by these sequestered nooks, 
through the years. 

“* He’s at Brightwood now,” observed Helen, at the first 
full stop in her new friend’s rhapsody. ‘“‘ That was Doctor 
Hudson’s hospital; so — naturally — I’m interested.” 

“Yes — you would be.” Marion smiled, cryptically. 

It was far past noon now. The little boat that had brought 
Helen over was moored at the wharf. They were helped into 
it. Neither spoke for full five minutes — Helen regarding 
their silver trail on the placid water, Marion’s eyes held by 
the lovely terraces and gates of the Villa. 

“T think,” said Marion dreamily, “that is the most 
wonderfully beautiful place I ever saw! ” 

** What I can’t understand — ” Helen’s face was a study 
in perplexity. ‘‘ — is how they could have helped knowing 
each other — intimately. . . . Taking the honors together 

. and specializing in the same thing . .. a very re- 
stricted field, too!” 

Marion turned and regarded her with a slow smile. 

“If ’'d known I was ever to find somebody who was so 
interested in him, I’d have made it my business to get ac- 


> 


quainted. . . . Let’s poke about in some of those funny 
little shops before we go up. . . . Want to?” 
o> > 


Marion Dawson went to her room that night — she had 
moved up to the Villa — with many troublesome misgivings. 
So far as the success of her mission was concerned, it was 
assured. Bobby had sent her to find out the whole truth 
about Helen’s financial misfortunes and to put him on the 


204, MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


track of their possible remedy. He had confided that his 
interest was in the main philanthropic. Had Doctor Hud- 
son lived, she would not have met this disaster; and Doctor 
Hudson’s death was more or less chargeable to him. At 
least, he admitted a heavy responsibility. Her welfare was 
his concern. 

“ Sure there isn’t any more to it than that, Bobby? ”’ she 
had teased. 

‘TI wish there was more to it,”’ he had confessed, ‘‘ but 
there can’t be. . . . I’ve quite put that idea out of my 
mind. . . . Frankly — she hates the sight of me! ” 

It hadn’t required much feminine intuition to discover 
that Bobby’s estimate of Helen Hudson’s attitude toward 
him was exactly wrong. . . . How she could delight him, 
if she wished, with an impressionistic report of today’s con- 
versation. . . . But that wouldn’t be fair. . . . Precisely 
where was her allegiance in this matter? . . . It was traitor- 
ous enough to extract Helen’s confidence about her money 
difficulties — but that would be ultimately to her advantage. 
When she learned — if she ever did — how her financial 
anxieties were relieved, she would not question the method. 
. . . But she would never forgive a breach of confidence 
about her interest in Bobby. . . . Really, it was most un- 
pleasant — being a spy. 

All afternoon they had been together, rambling in and 
out of the crooked little streets; at four, grinding laboriously 
up the hill in the ancient fiacre with the high, steel-tired 
wheels; at seven, tarrying over their dinner in the arbor — 
each conscious of a friendship destined, they felt, to become 
very valuable. Helen had insisted upon her having a room 
next her own, on the south side where the big balconied 
windows looked out upon the bay. . . . Tomorrow they 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 205 


were having an early breakfast so they could catch the little 
steamer on its first trip of the day to Como. 

“Td flick this job tonight,’? wrote Marion, ‘“‘ and come 
straight home, if it wasn’t that I knew my detective work 
would benefit her. She’s been terribly lonely, awfully 
troubled; and she’s going to tell me all about it in the next 
few days. I won’t have to ask her a single question. She’s 
going to tell me of her own accord. But I do feel so mean, 
Bobby, with this deception. What an-adorable creature she 
is! I never met anybody to whom I was so quickly drawn. 
Please don’t ever let her find out about my part in this. I 
don’t believe I could bear it if she learned I had cultivated 
her for a purpose! ” 


Ce aT Re 


The shopkeepers in little Bellagio became quite accustomed 
to the sight of two remarkably attractive young American 
women on their streets, and the skippers of the pleasure 
craft, plying Lake Como, were proud to have them for fre- 
quent passengers. Every morning they breakfasted together 
in the arbor, every evening they strolled, arm in arm, through 
the lovingly tended gardens of the hotel. 

There was very little about each other’s story that they 
did not know now. Their confidences had been tender, 
girlish, unreserved. It was no ordinary friendship. From 
the first moment, they had been irresistibly attracted, and 
made no effort to sustain the reticence each would have felt, 
naturally, toward a stranger. 

All forenoon of that tragic Tuesday, which they were to 
remember with agony, they had hiked along a torturous 
mountain road above Menaggio. Helen had laid bare her 


206 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


whole dilemma in the case of her business dealings with 
Monty, and was strongly counseled to wait a while and do 
nothing until her return to the States, seeing that her in- 
come was assured for the present. . . . With the bars all 
down, she talked freely about Bobby too, confessing by her 
tone all that she hesitated to put into words. 

It began to rain, after luncheon. They agreed upon a 
siesta, and went to their rooms. . . . An hour later, Helen, 
having wakened, decided to write some letters. She re- 
membered she had left her guide-book in Marion’s room. 
Quietly turning the knob and finding the door unlocked, 
she tiptoed across the room, smiling at the sleeping face on 
the pillow, and took up her Baedeker from the writing- 
desk. Beside it, stamped and ready for mailing, was a 
bulky letter addressed to Dr. Robert Merrick, Brightwood Hos- 
pital, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A. 

She was stunned . . . as if someone had dealt her a blow 
over the heart. Scarcely able to breathe, she groped her 
way blindly out of the room, so fearful of rousing Marion 
that she left the door ajar rather than risk rattling the latch. 

For a long time she sat on the edge of her bed, shoulders 
bowed, hands listless on her knees. The world had caved in. 
With hot cheeks, she recalled some of the things she had 
whispered to Marion Dawson — confidences no. Inquisition 
machinery could have twisted out of her. . . . Doubtless 
all these impulsive confessions had been ‘spread on paper to 
satisfy the curiosity of Bobby Merrick. It was clear enough 
now! . . . What an odd coincidence they had thought it — 
she and Marion — that they had been brought together in 
this accidental way, and found the dearest friendship either 
of them had ever known! . . . Coincidence — indeed! 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 207 


Soo Ke 


Marion slept heavily until five and roused with the un- 
easy sensation that something unpleasant had occurred. It 
was raining torrents. The room was dark. A strong draft 
was blowing through. The door was open. She distinctly 
remembered having closed it. 

Suddenly she gasped and clutched at her throat with both 
hands. She walked with short, reluctant steps to the desk. 
Helen’s Baedeker was gone! It would have been impossible 
for her to recover it without noticing the letter. She flung 
herself across the bed, swept with remorse. 

A half hour later, frantically drumming on her temples 
with her fingers, she resolved to take the letter to Helen and 
beg her to read it. She would tell the whole story, and try 
to explain how she came to be involved in this benevolent 
treachery. 

Heart pounding, face flushed, she tapped gently at Helen’s 
door and received no response; tried the latch and found it 
locked. 

Returning to her room, she nervously dressed for dinner, 
and went slowly down the winding stair-case; searched the 
lounge, glanced into the dining-room; finally summoned 
her courage to approach the desk of the concierge. 

“Has Mrs. Hudson come down? ”’ she asked, with a dry 
throat. 

“She is gone, madame. . . . You did not know? ” 

“Gone? . . . You mean she has left the hotel? ” 

** About four o’clock, madame.” 

“* But — where? ”’ 

** She left no address, madame. . . . She said she would 
send for her trunks, later.” 


208 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


Marion turned slowly away and retraced her steps spirit- 
lessly to the foot of the stairs; then, after some hesitation, 
came again to the desk. 

** Will you see if there is a message for me? ” 

Obediently he went through the motions of inspecting 
several pigeon-holes on the wall behind him and thumbed a 
pack of letters, looking for something neither of them ex- 
pected he would find. 

It poured hard all night, and the Villa Serbelloni — if not 
the loneliest place in the world — was a close runner-up to 
the Continental Hotel in Milan, for that distinction. 


XIII 


Bre GIRL WITH THE PINK HAIR, LANGUOROUS LASHES 
gummy with an overdose of mascara, and ugly black muffins 
over her ears, was informing Mr. Brent that a Doctor Mer- 
rick was in the lobby and wished to see him. . . . No, he 
hadn’t said. 

“Mr. Brent is dressing for dinner and can’t come down,” 
she said coyly, with one hand over the mouthpiece. ‘“‘ He 
says can you tell him on the phone what you want. Just 
step into booth number two, please.” 

“Tell him [ll be right up.” 

She relayed the message, while the tall young man with 
the shoulders of a discus-thrower and the tapering waist of 
a fencer tapped the high counter in front of the switchboard 
with slender, impatient fingers. 

** He says it won’t be convenient,” she reported, visibly 
reluctant to transmit the blunt discourtesy. 

“*What’s his room number? ” inquired Doctor Merrick, 
unruffled. 

“Three hundred and seventy-eight; but —he said he 
couldn’t see you, you know.” 

“* Here, boy,” to the bell-hop at his elbow, “ put those 
bags in check, and then show me up to three hundred and 
seventy-eight.”’ 

Mr. Brent was not dressing for dinner. He was packing a 
trunk; and chairs, bed and table were littered with clothing, 
papers, books, toilet articles and mussy linen. The room 
was in great disorder. It was with a very surly scowl that 
he opened the door to inspect his visitor. 


“Merrick — you say? Never heard of you. What’s 
209 


210 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


wanted?” He planted his short, stocky bulk defiantly in 
the doorway, hands on hips. 

“* Ask me in and I’ll tell you,” said Merrick quietly. 

Brent reluctantly stepped back. 

*“* Oh, very well,” he snapped, peevishly. “ But make it 
peppy. I’m busy —as you see. ... Thought Id sent 
word down that I didn’t care to be bothered.” 

The loud-checked coat that matched the trousers he had 
on was lifted from the back of a chair and tossed on the 
bed. 

** Sit down — if you want to.” 

Young Merrick ignored the sour invitation and proceeded 
to state his errand. 

“ T live in Detroit where I am associated with Brightwood 
Hospital.” 

Brent’s face, pallid, and bristly with two days’ beard, 
went a shade paler. 

* Yeah?” 

“You may recall that Brightwood Hospital was brought 
into prominence by your cousin’s late husband — Doctor 
Hudson.” 

** Well — and then what? ” growled Brent, insolently. 

“It came to our attention, about thirty days ago, that 
Mrs. Hudson — now in Italy, as you know — was obliged 
to dispose of her interest in the hospital.” 

“And how’s that any of your damn business?” de- 
manded Brent, stepping toward Merrick belligerently. 
“You’re just a doctor, aren’t you? Couldn’t she sell her 
hospital stock, if she wanted to, without consulting you? ” 

“‘ Quite true,” replied Merrick, determined not to lose his 
temper. ‘‘ She had no occasion to confide in me, and didn’t. 
But if we are interested in her welfare, I should think that 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 2It 


might meet with your approval. You’ve been managing 
her affairs, haven’t you? ”’ 

** Yeah! And I don’t need any help! ” 

**T happen to know that you do. That’s what I came 
here to talk about.” 

** And what makes you so powerfully interested in my 
cousin? ’’ Brent sneered. ‘“‘ Trying to get your fingers on 
her money? ” 

The fingers were restless. 

**T advise you not to presume too far on my patience, 
Brent.” 

** When you get too impatient, you can leave! . . . You 
want to marry my cousin, I suppose — but have to make 
sure, first, that she has plenty to keep you! ” 

** Just for the moment,” cautioned Merrick, “ we'll not 
be talking about Mrs. Hudson. We’re going to talk about 
you! . . . And that Northwestern Copper stock! ” 

** What do you mean, you low-down, sneaking spy? ” 

*“‘T mean that in the last twelve months you’ve lost up- 
wards of one hundred thousand dollars on the ticker and 
the ponies. . . . That last big flyer in oil — along in May, 
wasn’t it? — wiped out the Northwestern Copper completely! 
. . . 1m here, as Mrs. Hudson’s friend, to find out exactly 
what you propose to do about it.” 

Brent’s face was livid. He stamped to the door and threw 
it open. 

** Now — out you go, damn you! — or I’ll call the house 
detective! ” ; 

Merrick turned to the untidy desk and took up the tele- 
phone. 

*“‘T’ll save you the trouble,” he said quietly, lifting the 
receiver. 


212 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


“ Put that down!’ screamed Brent, slamming the door. 

Merrick smiled and obeyed. 

** You’re not anxious to talk to a detective, Brent. But 
you're going to talk to me! Do you want to come clean on 
all this, now, and tell me about it — or do I have to break 
you in two over that table? I can do it, you know; and 
Id like to!” 

Blind with fury, Brent lunged savagely with his fist. Step- 
ping aside to let it go by, Merrick caught the shaking wrist 
in a vise-like grip of his left hand. With the other, he 
gathered up a large handful of Brent’s throat, pushed him 
to the table, and bent him over it — back — back farther, 
until the purple neck was corded with distended veins, and 
his labored breathing signed it was a good time to ease up. 

** Like to talk business now? ” 

Brent raised heavily to one elbow, and his hand fumbled 
in the desk drawer. 

“Drop that gun!” Merrick closed down on the wrist 
until Brent’s fingers released their hold on the automatic. 
It fell to the floor. “‘ That shooting project costs you extra.” 
Once more Brent’s Adam’s apple and environs were com- 
pressed until his breath came in agonizing little whistles. 

Merrick stooped and picked up the gun, emptied it, 
pocketed the cartridges, and waited for his host to re- 
cover, 

After some minutes he sat up, rubbed his bloodshot eyes 
clumsily with his fists, and felt gingerly of his neck. 

“Well,” he croaked, “‘ now you’ve proved you’re bigger 
than I am, what do you want? ” 

*“T’m no bigger than you are, Brent. Your trouble was 
that you rushed me with your eyes shut. Just took a long 
chance that maybe, somehow, your blow would land. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 213 


That’s probably what ails you, all along the line. You close 
your eyes and whang away, hoping you'll strike something 
by accident. .. . That afterthought of yours about the 
gun... you'd be in a nice mess by now if I had let you 
shoot me. . . . Some little gambler, you are! ” 

“Td rather take a chance on the chair than the pen! ” 

“That proves what I’m saying. . . . And — speaking of 
chairs and pens, crawl over there to your desk and sit down. 
I’m going to have you write something for me.” 

“ If you think you’re going to extort a confession from me, 
Merrick, you’ve another think coming.” 

*“‘ Confession? Nonsense! I’ve enough evidence in my 
pocket to send you up for twenty years. . . . I want you 
to write a letter to your cousin. I?ll dictate it. Don’t make 
any mistakes in it, for I’m going to mail it myself.” 

Brent slumped off the table and sweeping the desk clear 
of its litter took up a pen. 

** Begin with her address and your customary salutation. 
Continue as follows: In view of the uncertainty of your in- 
come from your Northwestern Copper stock, I-have dis- 
posed of it —”’ 

Flinging the pen down, Brent shouted, “ Do you realize 
you’re forcing me to write this letter? ”’ 

** Oh, rather! That’s why you’re writing it! Proceed, 
please.” 

“Do you know what that is? . . . compelling me to 
write this? ”” 

“* What is it? ” 

** Why — it’s — it’s —” 

** You think up the name for it after I’m gone. . . . Pick 
up that pen! . . . You’ve got that about your disposal of 
her Northwestern Copper? Now—go on.... I have 


214 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


taken its equivalent for you in Axion Motor Corporation, 
preferred — ” . 

Brent hesitated and glanced up mystifiedly. 

**T don’t understand! ” 

‘“‘ That’s unimportant,” said Merrick crisply. “It’s none 
of your business, in fact. You’re just acting as my clerk for 
the moment. You have nothing further to do in your 
cousin’s business affairs after writing this note: — Axion 
Motor Corporation, preferred; five hundred shares listed 
today at two hundred and twenty-six. This stock is held by 
the Trust Department of the Fourth National Bank of De- 
troit from where your dividends will hereafter be remitted 
to you regularly.” 

** How do I know that’s true? ” growled Brent. 

“You don’t; but —as I said — it’s no affair of yours. 
Have you written it? Now— one more paragraph: —I find 
that an important business errand requires me to go im- 
mediately to Buenos Aires — ” 

‘** But — I’m not going to Buenos Aires! ” 

“Oh, yes, you are! ... Sailing on Saturday. ... 
You're just packing up, now, to leave for Washington to get 
the passport I’ve arranged for you. From there you go to 
New York where you sail on the Vigo. . . . Get on now 
with your correspondence: — I do not know how long I shall 
be away; so I am transferring my entire responsibility for 
your business to the Trust Department of the Fourth Na- 
tional Bank of Detroit. Mr. T. P. Randall will verify this 
and give you a clear statement of your affairs in a short: 
time. . . . Now add whatever pleasant amenities you may 
have the crust to write to a woman you have robbed, and 
sign your name to it . . . and address an envelope.” 

While he wrote, Merrick took out his wallet, extracted a 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 215 


steamship ticket, and counted two thousand dollars in bills 
of large denomination. 

** There.” He pointed to it, as Brent finished. ‘“ That is 
for you. Take it — and be off! And if you’re in the market 
for any advice, I’d suggest that you quit trying to be a sport, 
which you most certainly aren’t; make some new connec- 
tions; find a few honest friends; get yourself a respectable 
job; buck up — and be a man!” 

His face distorted, Brent fumbled with the money, and 
blindly groped out with his hand. Merrick ignored the 
gesture. He was not fond of the movies. 


“You can get out of the country, can’t you?. . . I’ve 
fixed things for you so you’ll have no trouble about the pass- 
port, unless you’re wanted for some other crime. . . . Sure 
you'll not be stopped? . . . Haven’t been robbing any- 
body else besides your little cousin, have you? ”’ 

“No! No! ... God — but I’ve been a rotter!” Col- 


lapsing in his chair, Monty buried his tousled head in his 
arms. 

“You don’t have to remain a rotter, Brent. . . . Start 
freshPwes Go \straight!:./ 44, Youcan)do: it!..... Pm 
going now. If you have any trouble getting off, wire me. 
There’s my card. And I presume I needn’t tell you that 
Mrs. Hudson is never to know anything about this little 
transaction of ours.” 

** You mean,” said Brent, looking up perplexed, “‘ that 
she’s not going to know you’ve given her all this money? 
What do you expect to get out of it?” _ 

** That’s my business! ... No—JI think [ll tell you 
. . . just to clear your mind of any nasty suspicion that my 
obligation to her may be somehow to her discredit. . . . Do 
you recall the story of her husband’s death? ” 


216 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


Brent nodded. 

“Do you remember that a young man was resuscitated, 
while Doctor Hudson was drowning? ” 

“Yeah —I remember ... some rich guy.... By 
God — it was you?” 

“Yes! My life was saved, that day, by a machine which 
might have brought Doctor Hudson around, if he’d had a 
chance at it. . . . Had Hudson lived, you would not have 
squandered Mrs. Hudson’s money. ... Do you under- 
stand now? ” 

“Was that why you became a doctor too?” inquired 
Brent, wide-eyed. 

“That would be a good enough reason . . . but — no 
matter about that. . .. I just wanted you to know the 
nature of my interest in your cousin. . . . I don’t give a 
damn what you think about me, but I’d prefer you’d think 
straight about her! ” 

“‘ So — you figured he had handed your life back to you — 
sort of — and you had to make good with it; is that it? ” 

** Something like that.” 

For a long time Brent sat staring up glassily, and when he 
spoke his voice came from a distance. 

“* God! — I never heard of such a thing! . . . And here 
you’ve just handed my life back to me! . . . If I were the 
kind of a person you are, I suppose I’ d fave to do something 
about it, wouldn’t I? ” 

** Oh — not necessarily. . . . I was a good while debat- 
ing whether to do anything about my affair. . . . I was a 
pretty rummy lot, Brent. . . . I’d have ducked it if I could.” 

“How do you mean — rummy? . . . Hadn’t stolen any- 
thing, had you? ” 

“* Never needed to steal anything. . . . Had everything. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 217 


. . . Had ‘too much! . . . Corrupted a lot of people with 
it! . . . You’ve had too little. I suppose that’s the main 
difference between us.” 

** D’you think there’s anything I could do — to square up 
for what you’ve done for me? ” 

** Perhaps — if that sort of thing interests you? ” 

*“* What — for instance? ” 

Merrick rose and took up his coat. 

** You'll have to figure that out for yourself.” 

“Td like to, you know,” said Brent earnestly. 

“You mean that?” challenged Merrick, putting both 
hands on Monty’s shoulders and looking him squarely in 
the eyes. 

** Yes — more than I ever meant anything in my life! ” 

It seemed to Monty that his athletic young benefactor 
would never emerge from the brown study into which his 
words had driven him. He stood, leaning against the table, 
hands deep in his pockets, oblivious to his surroundings. 

““Tn that case,’’ he said slowly, “‘I presume I'll have to 
help you. I don’t want to! But — there’s just a slim chance 
that. . . . See here! You shave and dress for dinner. I'll 
be in the lobby when you come down. We’ll eat — and 
Pll tell you all I know about it. After that — it will be up 
to you! . . . Better put some iodine on those scratches. 
. . . sorry I hurt you.” 


CAS 


They went in a taxi to a down town restaurant. It was 
somewhat after the dinner hour and their table in the corner 
permitted them to talk undisturbed. Counseled to forget 
the experience of the past two hours, Monty had regained 


218 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


his self-confidence and listened with rapt attention to his 
host. Ifit was not good soil for the reception of a new idea, 
it was for no lack of sufficient plowing and harrowing. 

“JT am going to tell you a strange story, Brent, about 
a sculptor named Randolph. If it seems incredible to 
you, I shall not be surprised. It was to me when I first 
heard it.” 

It was a long story. Dinner courses came and went. In 
the hour, Monty had spoken but once. 

*“* He’d quite lost his mind, hadn’t he? ” 

Dessert glasses had now been pushed aside and cigars 
lighted. 

“* Of course,” Merrick was saying, “if you should decide 
to experiment with this projection of yourself through in- 
vestments in other people, you must be prepared for all 
manner of failures, disillusionments, disgusts. You will fre- 
quently go to no end of trouble and expense for somebody 
who turns out to be a pest and a piker. You will be im- 
posed upon, lied to, lied about! You will run into cases of 
ingratitude so rank that it will sicken you! But — now and 
again, you will manage to put the thing over .. . and 
when you do you will discover it has squared for all the 
failures you’ve had! ” 

He paused, and his mood seemed reminiscent. 

““ I: expect you’re wondering,” risked Monty, ‘‘ whether 
you’ve been wasting your time and money on me.” 

“So far as the money’s concerned, I’m afraid that wasn’t 
an investment in you. I just wanted to be rid of you. But 
— you’re quite right about my wondering whether it’s really 
been worth while to confide to you this theory of personality 
projection.” 

“Do you mind if I inquire whether you think it would 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 219 


give you additional personal power in your undertakings, if 
I managed to make good? ” 

““ Oh, unquestionably! ”” 

“ And — if it ever got out — that you had started me on 
the way up — then this whole investment of yours in my 
behalf would be a total loss to you? ” 

Merrick smiled and toyed preoccupiedly with his ash-tray. 

“Well — no! . . . Randolph wasa bit obsessed, you 
know. He was for breaking people’s necks if they told of 
his investments in them. That was going it rather stronger 
than necessary. . . . Hudson was careful to caution his 
beneficiaries against telling, and threw every possible safe- 
guard around his investments to protect them from dis- 
covery; but I don’t believe he felt they hadn’t been worth 
doing if the facts leaked out... . The really important 
feature of it is here: if you succeed in expanding your per- 
sonality, I shall come in on the reward by just as much as 
I’ve been responsible for it. . . . In the process of expand- 
ing yourself, you are almost sure to help somebody else 
make himself bigger. He, in turn, energizes other people. 
. . . If you know anything about chemistry, you will be 
helped by considering this as a process of catalysis... . 
Personality projection is like any other investment. The 
thing goes on! It earns compound interest. If you were 
the agent that set it going, the credit’s yours. . . . Some 
of it will be going at full blast long after you have been de- 
clared dead. In actual fact, the real_you may be more alive, 
as to personality energy, fifty years after you’re gone, than 
when you seem to be at the top of your power! ” 

“‘ But — if your beneficiary does not succeed in making 
good on your investment? . . .” 

Merrick shrugged. 


220 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


“ In that case, you can see for yourself that nothing comes 
of it.” 

“* But — you tried! Isn’t there any satisfaction to be had 
of that? ” 

“Oh, it’s good practice, I suppose... . But —if you 
had spent twenty thousand dollars and six months’ time 
sinking an oil-shaft, and got nothing but a dry hole, would 
you have much satisfaction in reflecting that — at all events 
— you'd tried? ” 

When they parted at the curb, Brent said, “‘ May I write 
to you, sometimes, and report? ” 

“Glad to have you. . . . But you needn’t try to tell me 
what you’re doing for anybody else. That’s your affair. 
Write and tell me if it works — but not what you did to 
make it work. Do you get me? ... Good luck!... 
Good-bye! ” 

> > 


Bobby went to the Ritz-Carlton for the night, stood for a 
long time at the counter of the Western Union office in the 
lobby trying to compose a cable to Vienna, gave it up, 
bought a few magazines and took the elevator. 

Having made himself comfortable in a dressing-gown, he 
drew up to his desk and wrote: 

“Dear Marion: I’ve been racking my brain for a solu- 
tion to your problem, but nothing comes. You have lost a 
friend and I see no way for you to regain her at present. I 
learned tonight that she is in Nice. But I don’t want you 
to go there seeking a reconciliation, for you couldn’t do it 
without making things bad all around. You would be 
obliged to say that you went to Bellagio as my agent to 
discover what had happened to her money. I’ve arranged 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 221 


— guided by your report — for the complete untangling of 
her affairs. She has recovered in full. But the machinery 
devised to effect this restoration of her property without 
offense to her is frail enough. I believe and hope it will go, 
but it won’t stand any wrenches being tossed into it. 

“The postscript to your letter broke me all up. She left 


Bellagio about four, you said ... drenching rain... 
heartsick and betrayed . . . by you and me — who would 
have laid down and died for her! . . . Stuffy little steamer 
to Como. . . . Probably spent the night there — or maybe 
caught a train over to Milan . . . wondering where to go 

. what to do next! My dear — was there ever a more 
pitiful state of things? . . . Consult Jack about this. Ask 


him if he sees any other way out. If neither you nor he can 
think of a plan by which you can communicate with her 
without jeopardizing everything we have tried to do for her, 
better keep away! I’m devastated over the situation, but — 
there you are!” 

Then he wrote a letter to Helen which he had no intention 
of mailing, tore it into small bits, undressed, went to bed, 
tried to read, turned out the light, relaxed. 

For a long time it had been his custom, just before drop- 
ping off, to attempt an inward look. His corridor — as he 
called it — was, of course, a mere hallucination developed 
and encouraged by his own quest of it. He had long since 
decided that the corridor was but an eccentric property of 
his own imagination, located somewhere in that No-Man’s- 
Land between fading consciousness and sleep. 

It amused him to search for it, and, by practice, he had 
been able to arrest the clouding of his consciousness at the 
exact phase where his curious phantom resided. 

The clearness of it depended upon his mood; and his 


222 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


mood — in respect to the corridor — was determined by the . 
projects he happened to be working on in the field of per- 
sonality projection. 

Usually a very thin, faint pencil of promising yellow light 
streaked down the middle of the corridor’s rough flagging — 
the flagging was always rough as if paved with cobble-stones. 
There would be but an instant of it. The big doors would 
part, and the light would shine through . . . just enough to 
nourish a great hope. 

Tonight — perhaps because of the investment he had 
made, his intense concentration upon the subject he had 
endeavored to make clear to Brent, and the emotional strain 
incident to both — his mood, he found, was unusually con- 
ducive to a materialization of the corridor. 

As he neared that gray twilight of consciousness, it came 
sharply into focus. The doors, instead of parting a little, 
slowly, tentatively, were opening! The corridor was flooded 
with a shimmering radiance. 

After that, events moved with bewildering swiftness. The 
corridor suddenly seemed objectified — a thing apart from 
himself — and he walked into it! A terrific roar deafened 
him. . . . Finding the blinding glare at the big doors too 
painful to face, he turned his attention to the objects against 
the wall, blinking in his effort to accommodate his eyes to 
the dazzling light. 

All endeavors to recall, afterwards; exactly what he saw 
there were futile. They belonged to a narrowly restricted 
phase of half-consciousness, and were not to be recon- 
structed elsewhere. He was left only with a very hazy im- 
pression that he had seen his own laboratory — the oven, 
the black switch-board, the little vise screwed to the table. 
His diminutive blast-furnace was at top heat. White flames 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 223 


jutted out about the hinges. Doubtless that accounted for 
the roar. There was also a nebulous recollection left that 
the door of the five-foot cabinet, containing all the apparatus 
he had been at such pains to manufacture over a period of 
many months, stood wide open. . . . He had almost de- 
cided, a few days earlier, to dismantle it and have it carted 
off before some inquisitive colleague in the hospital dis- 
covered what an audacious thing he had had in mind, and 
chaffed him about... . . 

Well — be he waking or sleeping, sane or crazy — there 
it was! 

In the lowest compartment there was a box containing 
the vacuum tubes; but they were not arranged in the order of the 
tubes in his cabinet! 

He had summoned all his efforts to concentrate on that 
illusory tube-box, and the exertion aroused him to full 
consciousness. 

Tossing aside the bed-clothes, he leaped out drenched with 
perspiration and trembling so he could barely stand. For 
an hour he sat at his desk, drawing diagrams of another 
experimental hook-up of his tubes. He was unable to shake 
off the impression that he was on the edge of discovery. A 
strange sensation of exultancy possessed him. 

Mechanically putting on his street clothes, he went down 
into the deserted lobby and sought the outer air. For miles 
and miles he walked, neither knowing nor caring where he 
went; walked with long strides, seeing nothing; utterly 
absorbed by the curious experience that still clung to him 
like a garment. ... . When dawn broke, he found himself 
down at the ferry-docks. 

Returning to the hotel, he bathed, breakfasted, and drove 
to the station. Securing a compartment, he went to bed 


224 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


and slept dreamlessly all day. When he awoke it was dark, 
and for a moment he was unable to recall where he was. 
Then remembrance came, and he smiled broadly. A strange 
sense of mastery exalted him. He laughed, and recalled 
Randolph. Randolph had laughed. Randolph had found 
the grass greener; everything tuned up to a higher key; 
every sensation more intense. He laughed as Randolph had 
laughed! 

** And once I thought him crazy! ” 

He sat on the edge of his berth and stared hard at the 
shiny mahogany walls of his compartment, his eyes wide 
with the interest of his pleasurable self-analysis. He laughed. 

** And once I thought Hudson was crazy! ” 

The jolting of the trucks over the rail-ends, the clank of 
chains, and the wail of flanges tortured by a sharp curve, 
stirred him out of his rhapsody. The sound of his own 
laughter still echoed in his brain. He rubbed his forehead 
roughly with the back of his wrist, and swallowed with a 
dry throat. 

** My God!” he groaned. ‘“‘ I wonder if I’m going mad!” 


XIV 


jee MERRICK DISCOVERED, WITHIN A WEEK, THAT 
when a man begins to suspect he is slipping mentally his 
disorder fattens on itself. 

He became morbidly introspective, exaggerated the sig- 
nificance of his little tricks of manner, caught himself doing 
things automatically and wondered what else he might have 
been doing of which he had no recollection. 

Then, in the course of two hours, one Friday morning, 
Pyle had said, “‘ You’re not quite par, these days. Some- 
thing bothering you? . . .” Watson had said, ‘“ I’ll look 
after that Weber case, Merrick. She has a notion you’re 
too young. Silly nonsense, but we'll have to humor her. 
...’ Nancy Ashford had said, “ What is it, Bobby? 
Mired? 

That settled it. At noon he told Pyle he was going out 
to the country for a couple of weeks. He spent the after- 
noon gutting his little laboratory, assisted by an orderly who 
packed the apparatus into boxes. His first intention was 
to store the stuff in his suite of rooms near the hospital. On 
second thought, he shipped the whole of it out to Windy- 
mere. Perhaps he might amuse himself if time dragged. 

Farmers along the roads near Lake Saginack grew ac- 
customed to the sight of a tall, slender chap, in knickers and 
white sweater, walking rapidly on the highway; learned 
who he was; vainly speculated about the cause of his leisure. 
One tale had it that he was discharged from the hospital 
for drunkenness, another that he had decided to give up 
medicine and loaf. Meggs’ curiosity, reaching that state of 


compression which demanded that he either blow off or 
225 


226 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


blow up, ventured to inquire of Bobby why he had come | 
home, and was informed that his young master was re- 
covering from “a slight touch of leprosy.” 

Old Nicholas aged markedly during that first week, but 
made a gallant effort to disguise his worry, a well-intended 
deceit which added to his grandson’s anxieties. The old 
man’s excessive solicitude annoyed him. He reproached 
himself for making wild remarks for the sole purpose of 
seeing to what ridiculous lengths he might lead his grand- 
pére in assenting solemnly to his nonsense. 

*‘ Believe I could persuade him a cloud resembled a 
camel,”’ thought Bobby, “‘ and then talk him into the notion 
that it looked like a hawk.” 

More than two weeks had passed before he had any in- 
clination to rig his laboratory. Somehow it seemed related 
to his mental dishevelment, and the thought of it had been 
repugnant. One morning at breakfast, he announced im- 
pulsively that he wanted the use of an attic room for a 
work-shop. 

Nicholas was delighted. Carpenters, plumbers, and elec- 
triciars were in the house before noon, taking orders from a 
young scientist who obviously knew exactly what he wanted, 
surprising them with the breadth of his practical informa- 
tion about their trades. 

That night at dinner, Bobby was more like himself than 
he had been at any time since his home-coming. 

The farmers who lived near the highway missed him; 
presumed he had finished his vacation, or he had been re- 
instated at the hospital, or had gone “gallavanting to furrin 
parts.” 

Old Nicholas worried more about him now than before; 
feared his close confinement in the attic would do him harm. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 227 


Bobby rarely came down to the first floor. Most of his meals 
were sent up to him, and as often as not the tray was re- 
turned almost untouched. 


eA Ree 


It was on Thursday about nine. The lights in the lab- 
oratory had burned all Wednesday night. Bobby was hag- 
gard and stubbly with three days’ beard. Meggs had tried 
the door, found it locked; had knocked and been told to 
go away. 

Taking in his left hand the tiny knife, attached to the end 
of a long green cord, Bobby reached up and slowly moved 
the lever along the dial of the rheostat. 

The little scalpel came alive! 

For a long time he sat there on his laboratory stool with 
the dynamic thing in his hands, too deeply stirred to make 
a sound, trembling with ecstatic happiness. 

Then he switched off the current, put down the scalpel on 
the bench, rose, stretched his long arms until every fibre 
was at top torsion, and laughed boyishly. 


a 


Old Nicholas was quite swept off his moorings when 
Bobby strode into the library, shaggy as a tramp, hollow- 
eyed, pasty from lack of sleep, and said he wanted to use 
the telephone. 

“Is anything the matter, Robert?’ ” he quavered, rising 
hurriedly, and taking him by the arm. 

Bobby shook his head and smiled. The operator was in 
the process of giving him his connection. 


228 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


“T want to talk to Doctor Pyle, Nancy. ... No! . 
Everything’s quite all right!... Yes... . That you, 
Doctor Pyle? . . . I wish you would come out here!.. . 
Yes— very urgent! ... That’s fine! Thanks! Bring 
your bag along and we’ll put you up! ” 

““What’s it all about, son? Feel all right?”’ Nicholas 
had dropped into a chair and his face was twitching. 

“Very much all right! ” shouted Bobby, patting him on 
the shoulder. ‘“‘ Ill tell you about it after a little! I want 
to run up and shave first. Then I want my breakfast. . . 
Meggs! . . . I'll be down again in a half hour for a thick 
slice of ham, two eggs turned, a pair of flapjacks, and a pot 
of strong coffee.” 

> > 


Doctor Pyle was consumed with curiosity when he arrived. 
Nicholas could not tell him exactly what was wanted. He 
was to go up to the attic when he came. Robert wished to 
see him there. 

“You can come along, Grandpére! ” called Bobby from 
the head of the stairs. 

Nicholas trudged wheezily after Pyle, and they entered 
the laboratory. 

** Hello, Doctor Pyle,” greeted Bobby radiantly. “ Got 
something to show you! Wanted you to be the first to see it! ” 

He held up the gleaming little scalpel, dependent from 
yards of green-clad wiring, leading to a tall cabinet. 

“Take it in your hand! . . . Now look!” He stepped 
to the switchboard and drew a lever. 

** Look out! ” he warned, as Pyle lifted the knife for closer 
inspection. ‘‘ Don’t let it burn you! . . . Know what it 
is, don’t you? ” 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 229 


Pyle slowly nodded his head, eyes still intent upon the 
glowing blade. 


*“Humph! . . ..Cuts and cauterizes instantly, eh? ... 
Hummm! . . . Takes care of the hemorrhage as it goes, 
eh? ... Hummm!.. . Well — that means we’re to have 


some new brain surgery, doesn’t it? ”’ 

He reached out a hairy hand. 

“IT needn’t tell you what you’ve done, Merrick! ... 
Thank you for letting me be the first to congratulate you! ” 

Then, turning to old Nicholas, who had been standing by, 
his face puckered with baffled curiosity, he also extended his 
hand to him. 

“Mr. Merrick, your grandson has invented a device that 
will completely revolutionize brain surgery, and make a 
new science of it! Operations which have never yet been 
successfully performed will now be comparatively safe. 
Within the next thirty days, his name will be as familiar in 
the clinics of Europe as yours is among manufacturers of 
motor cars! ” 

Old Nicholas’ chin vibrated spasmodically. All he could 
say was “‘ Indeed! . . . Indeed! ” 

He threw an arm around his grandson’s broad shoulders, 
and mumbled, 

“Why, Bobby! . . . Indeed! ” 


Se 


Pyle could not stay the night, but consented to remain for 
dinner which was called earlier than usual for his conven- 
ience. When he had gone, old Nicholas and Bobby, deep 
in their chairs in the library, talked of the invention. 

To the latter’s pleased surprise, the old man asked ques- 


230 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


tions which showed with what tenacity he had retained his 
interest in physics; for there had been a time when Nicholas" 
Merrick had had to know a great deal about electricity. 

Bobby was so delighted with the lucidity of his grand- 
father’s queries and the comments, that he drew the small 
coffee-table between their chairs and proceeded to make a 
detailed diagram of his coagulation cautery, Nicholas follow- 
ing with keen attention. 

“It was the vacuum tubes that had you stumped, eh? 
. . . And the success of that came, you say, as a sort of 
bolt out of the blue. . . . How do you mean? ” 

** Did you ever go to bed, Grandpére, with a problem on 
your mind, and find in the morning that you’d worked it, 
somehow, in your sleep? ” 

Nicholas rubbed his jaw. 

*‘T’ve heard of such things. Can’t say I ever had that 
experience myself. . . . Was that what happened to you? ” 

Bobby pushed the table away, and shifted his chair until 
their knees touched. 

*‘ Grandpére,” he said, soberly, “I’m going to tell you 
something that you may have trouble believing. It’s a long 
story, and I’ll have to begin at the beginning.” 

Nicholas’ contribution to the conversation, during the 
next hour and a half, was limited to an occasional “‘ Indeed! 
» «4 dneredible!,..).. You don. tell)mel 

When finally Bobby had made an.end of it, the old fellow 
sat for a long time in deep meditation. 

“‘T had never suspected, Bobby, that you were interested 
in religion.”’ 

** Not sure that I am, Grandpére.” 

** But that’s what this is! You’ve been talking about this 
‘Major Personality’ that supplies our personalities with 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION Pa 


added energy, as we ask for it and obey the rules for getting 
it. . . . Well — that’s God, isn’t it? ” 

** Doubtless. . . . Just another way of saying it, maybe.” 

** T’ve always shied off from the subject, Bobby. But, of 
late, it has been much on my mind. I’m quite disturbed, 
these days. I’m in a mental revolt against death. It’s 
sneaking up on me, and there’s nothing I can do about it. 
Death holds all the trump cards. . . . It takes me a little 
longer to get out of bed in the morning than a month ago. 
It is just a bit harder to climb the stairs than it was last 
week. The old machine is running down. I don’t want to 
die. I understand that when a man actually faces up to it, 
nature compounds some sort of an anesthesia which numbs 
his dread and makes it seem right enough; but that thought 
brings me small comfort. I have been accustomed to meet- 
ing all my emergencies with my eyes open, and I don’t get 
much consolation out of the thought that I’m to be doped 
into a dull apathy — like a convict on the way to execution 
—as I face this last one. . . . I wouldn’t mind so much 
if there was anything — after that. . . . Bobby, do you 
believe in immortality? ” 

**T wish I was as sure of a few other things that bother 
me,” replied Bobby, instantly, “as I am of the survival of 
personality. Once you’ve experienced a vital contact with 
the Major Personality, Grandpére, you become aware that 
the power of it is quite independent of material things. . . . 
To my mind, that’s clear. Personality is all that matters! 
The roses in that vase have no meaning for each other; no 
meaning for themselves. A tiger doesn’t know he is a tiger. 
Nothing in the world has any reality except as it is declared 
real by our personalities. Count personality out of the 
scheme, and there’s no significance left to anything! Include 


232 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


personality in the scheme, and the whole business is auto- . 
matically explained! 

“‘ T’ve thought a good deal about the soul lately, Grand- 
pére. It strikes me that the things one reads about souls 
are frightfully misleading. They inquire, ‘What are you 
doing to, for, and with your soul? ’ as they might ask ‘ When 
are you going to turn in your old car?’ . . . I can’t say 
‘ my soul,’ as I would say ‘ my hat,’ or ‘ my canoe,’ or ‘ my 
liver” . . .I ama soul! I have a body! My body is wear- 
ing out, and when I can’t tinker it back into service any 
more, I’ll drive it out to the junk-pile; but I don’t have to 
be junked with it! I’m tied up to the Major Personality! 
. . . like a beam of sunshine to the sun! .. . I'll not lose 
my power unless He loses His! ... If that’s religion, 
Grandpére, I’m religious! But I’d rather think of it as 
science! ” 

** Bobby — are you a Christian? ” 

** That’s what I’d like to know, myself, Grandpére. . . . 
For some time I have been very much absorbed by the per- 
sonality of Christ. Here was the case of a man who made 
an absolutely ideal adjustment to his Major Personality. He 
professed to have no experience of fear. He believed he 
could have anything he wanted by asking for it. . . . The 
story interests me at the point of his bland assurance that 
anybody else could do the same thing if he cared to. I’m 
amazed that more people aren’t interested in that part of 
it... . Now — if that’s being a Christian, I’m a Christian.” 

** Is that what the churches teach, Bobby? ” 

“T’m sure I don’t know; for I never go to them. From 
what I gather, they approach this whole subject senti- 
mentally. They regard the soul as a sort of congenital 
disease that ought to be cured. The soul has been passed 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 233 


along, from one common carrier to another, like a trunk 
with a bent lock and a broken hinge labelled ‘ Received in 
Bad Order.’ . . . And as for the things you read in the 
papers about the churches, either they’re campaigning for 
money to build something, or helping to elect a new prose- 
cuting attorney, or stopping a prize-fight, or panning some 
other sect’s belief, or raising hell with one another inside 
their own bailiwick. . . . Maybe you and I had better 
start a church; eh, Grandpére? ” 

“Very good,” approved Nicholas, grinning. ‘ T’ll build 
it and you be the parson.” 

“It would be just like all the rest of ’em. . . . Nobody 
would want to go to the bother and expense of making his 
own connections with his Major Personality. . . . He’d 
decide to sing about power. . . . Fancy! — singing about 
power! Watt didn’t sing for his! And Faraday didn’t pro- 
duce the dynamo by reciting ‘ I believe in Volta, Maker of 
the dry battery and Father of the Leyden jar, and in his 
successor Ampére, who codified the formulae for electro- 
dynamics, and in Ben Franklin who went at it with a kite.’ 

. No, sir! By the Great Horn Spoon—No!... 
Faraday did his in an attic, alone, on an empty stomach! ” 

He rose with a prodigious yawn and sauntered toward the 
door. 

“Tm off to Brightwood early in the morning... . 
Think I’d better turn in! ” 

Old Nicholas struggled heavily to his feet. 

** Bobby, I’m not physically able to go around trying to 
nose out some opportunity to experiment with your theory. 
Keep your eyes open and let me know if there’s anything I 
can do. You arrange for it: Dll furnish the money.”’ 

“That wouldn’t get you anywhere. . . . You can’t do 


234 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


this with a check-book! . . . By the way — did you know : 
that old Jed Turner, up the road here, had to kill seventeen 
of his Holstein cows, last week? The State Vet condemned 
them as tuberculous. . . . Jed’s all broken up about it.” 

‘“‘ I wonder if he has a telephone.” 

“Oh, you can easily send for him to come over.” 

Nicholas’ eyes brightened. He rubbed his hands. 

* Thanks for telling me, Bobby. Tl let you know how 
it comes out! ” 

“That you won’t! I never want to hear about it again! ” 

“Maybe you were thinking of doing it yourself,” said 
Nicholas. ‘“Ifso, [ll not get into it.” 

** No, Holsteins are not in my line. That’s your job. .. . 
And Grandpére — while you’re over in that neighbor- 
hood — I noticed, the other day, that Jim Abbot’s ten year 
old boy is dragging a leg in a brace that didn’t look right to 
me. . . . Why don’t you hop into your car tomorrow, 
and have Stephen drive you about through the district? 
You’ll be amazed what it does to you to make connections 
with people who need you! . . . Oh, I know you’ve done 
a lot. It was big stuff when you contributed a hundred 
thousand to the hospital in Axion; but you couldn’t do it 
without getting your name on a bronze tablet in the main 
hall. You drop in at Jim Abbot’s and inquire all about the 
boy. If they ask you to stay for noon dinner — corned beef 
and cabbage — you stay! I know you can’t eat boiled 
cabbage at home, because it isn’t good for you; but you'll 
be able to eat it at Abbot’s, and it won’t hurt you a bit. Til 
guarantee that on my honor as a medic!” 

“Run along to bed!” Nicholas slapped him vigorously 
on the back. “ Glad we had this talk! Glad your worries 
are all over! Now you can be happy again! ” 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 235 


“T’m not looking for happiness, Grandpére. . . . She’s 
out of my reach! ” 

“* Since when was happiness a she? ” 

** Mine is! ” 

“* Going to tell me about that, too? ” 

““ Sometime, maybe. . . . Good-night, Grandpére.” 


XV 


‘pe AQUITANIA HAD CREPT UP THE RIVER THAT MORNING 
with exasperating caution. It was the day before Christmas. 
The more impatient compared tedious experiences in cus- 
toms; hoped good-will toward men might have percolated 
through to the baggage inspectors; wondered if they could 
get Pullman space on the two-forty-five in case they missed 
the one-twenty. 

Her furs muffled high about her throat, Helen Hudson 
ventured to the frosty rail of B-deck as’ they passed the 
Battery, and found the stinging breeze a bit strenuous. 
She had avoided three consecutive winters, and the fast 
trip from Nice to New York had not been free of discomfort. 

A spluttery scrawl from Joyce accounted for her sudden 
decision to return. She had read the letter on a stone bench 
by the sea wall, a stone’s throw from the Casino pier, one 
week ago this morning. . . . It had been that kind of a 
journey. 

“ All packed and waiting for the taxi,” Joyce ‘had begun. 
** Going back to Detroit. Why Detroit, I don’t know unless 
because it seems to offer something like anchorage. I'll try 
to find some employment there — anything to occupy my 
mind. . . . The past month has been a nightmare! Quite 
unendurable! Last night, Tom struck me a savage blow on 
the breast with his fist . . . deeply penitent afterwards . . . 
wailed his remorse like a little child. . . . But I told him 
I'd had enough. ... I’m through! ... He left, early 
this morning, ashamed and glum. He thinks I'll be here 
when he comes home tonight, though I made it plain enough 
I was leaving. . . . I wonder, darling, would it be asking 

236 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 237 


too much of you to come back and be with me for a few 
weeks. I do need some good counsel, and I’m bitterly 
lonely. . . . It’s a shame to drag you back to Detroit in 
mid-winter — but could you? I’ve nobody but you! I need 
you desperately! ... Cable me at the Statler... . I'll 
be wild with joy if you say you’ll come! ” 

It had taken only an hour to decide. Creasing the letter 
with puzzled fingers, she had risen and walked mechanically 
along the Promenade des Anglais for fully a half mile; had 
slowly retraced her steps, past the Negresso and the Ruhl, 
so deep in her problem she barely noticed the strollers re- 
cruited from a dozen nations. By the time she had reached 
the little park fronting the Jettee, Helen was ready to con- 
cede that Joyce had won her case. 

She had called the roll of all the alternatives to a return 
trip. Why not cable Joyce to come over? But no — Joyce 
had set her heart on finding some employment. She would 
find none along the Riviera. Joyce wanted to begin life 
again. She couldn’t do it lounging in Nice. Joyce was 
bitterly lonely. Well — Nice wouldn’t help that very much. 
. . . After all—she did owe Joyce some attention. She 
must go! . . . It was almost as busy an afternoon as the 
one on which she had impulsively migrated from Bellagio. 

Slowly the big ship warped into her slip; sleety, salty 
hawsers were wound upon huge rumbling spools somewhere 
deep in her vitals; the covered gangways were hauled up 
from the dock and opened to the swarm of restless home- 
comers. Almost everybody had located wide expectant eyes 
in the steam-breathing crowd that huddled at the openings 
of the wharf-shed. 

Helen felt very much alone. She exchanged tentative 
good-byes with the few friends she had made on board; 


238 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


doubtless she would be bumping into them again in the 
customs. 

Already a nervous little caucus had convened under the 
big H, half-way down the drafty warehouse where a pile of 
luggage was rapidly accumulating. Some sat on their 
trunks with the resigned despair of the shipwrecked on a 
desert island; some — less experienced — squatted before 
their gaping bags contemplating last minute amendments 
to their declaration slips. 

Young Mrs. Hudson had done a minimum of collecting 
in Europe, but it was amazing how many things one un- 
wittingly came into possession of in the course of a mere 
three years of foreign travel. As she neared her letter, she 
met a pair of officials headed also in that direction and 
told them she was hopeful of spending at least part of 
Christmas day with relatives in Detroit. She led them to 
her belongings and indicated which pieces they were to put 
the stickers on. She could have brought in the crown 
jewels, that morning. 

To her delight, the three o’clock train was not crowded; 
but why should it be? It was Christmas Eve! Normal 
people were at home. The thought depressed her. For a 
little while, as the train roared through the tunnel, she 
missed a home as she had never before. 

There was a pleasurable excitement however in this re- 
turn to Detroit. She and Joyce had been very close. What- 
ever of constraint had come upon their comradeship, in 
that last trying winter when she had attempted so unsuccess- 
fully to keep the girl from utterly ruining herself, Joyce’s 
urgent need of her drove all that into oblivion. 

And there were many other friends in Detroit she would 
be happy to see again.... The Byrnes. . . . Should 


ay 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSIOJ 239 


she go out to see Mrs. Ashford? Why not — indeed? Mrs. 
Ashford had been good to her. ... . It might be thought 
strange if Doctor Hudson’s widow retu tay Detroit and 
failed to call at Brightwood. . . Perhaps it would serve 
the purpose if she invited Mrs. “Ashford: down town ‘for 
luncheon and a matinée. . . . It wouldn’t be necessary 
to go out to the hospital. . eck Pyle would be glad 
to see her, of course; but che could call on the Pyles, at their 
home. . . . Besides—it would be awkward meeting people 
one smpocly knew any more, and being expected to remem- 
ber their names. . .. And as for that ) lass-blower, who 
; meddled i in people’s Ae Be and sent spies about to report 
on their movements, one would be almost sure to encounter 
_ him! .. . Why should he want to blow glass, anyway? 
x feeden oh brain surgeon spending _ his time in 
such silly business! 4 
The sky was the color of ool nance Big snow-flakes 
- flattened against the pane, crumbled, edged toward the 
lower corner of the sash. No matter where they struck and 
spattered, or how slowly they made their ways sooner or 
later, quickly or slowly, they eventually arrived in ‘the 
corner and packed themselves down hard gainst the others. 
. Her thoughts were like that. Let em, strike where 
they would — they all contrived to bring up at one spot. 
_ She was impatient about it, tugged herself free of her rev- 
eries, returned to the magazine story and reread with 
disinterest the page that had failed to register. . ... W id , 
it pay to take the coupé out of the storagliarage She had 
not driven on icy streets for so ae Had she lost her nerve? 
Skidding was dangerous. . . . She watched a snow-flake 
creep across the pane. . . Her eyes grew ria, Mg 
_ tender. She bit her lip. Her cheeks flushed, 


eth 


240 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


Then, vexed with herself, she shifted her position and took 
up the magazine with resolution. 

Had Joyce been effectually cured of her drinking? Would 
she drift into her old habits, once she had renewed connec- 
tions with her Detroit set? . . . And be brought in, at all 
hours, maudlin and stupid? . . . An unusually big snow- 
flake went scudding across the glass, clawing for a hold, but 
unable to stand out against the rule for all snow-flakes on 
this pane. . . . For a brief instant, she was in his arms, 
and she felt his lips pressed hard against her own. . . . She 
threw down the magazine and rang the bell for a table. A 
game of solitaire might divert her. 


Cie 


It was pleasant to be back in an American dining-car. 
. . . And, all things considered, it would be better to in- 
vite Mrs. Ashford to take an afternoon off and come down 
town. . . . Our diners were so much nicer than the Euro- 
pean ones where the passengers were organized into platoons 
and given so many minutes to devour each course. . 
What a pity she had felt she had to sell her Brightwood 
stock. Would it make any difference in her relations with 
Mrs. Ashford? 

It was bitterly cold that night as the long train clanked 
and:creaked and screamed along the. east bank of the Hud- 
son, and, crossing the bridge at Albany, thrust its black 
muzzle into the face of a blinding blizzard; but the scurry- 
ing landscape, blurry with snow, did not seem so bleakly 
inhospitable as she had feared. In her berth, she raised on 
one elbow, drew aside the blind, and watched the sleet- 
trimmed trees and fences skimming by, half glad she was 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 241 


returning. She snuggled down with her furs against her 
cheek, and drifted off into an extended debate with some- 
body, whether she wasn’t under a sort of obligation tc call 
at Brightwood, if only for a moment. 


Wit EL: 


Joyce was at the gates, dancing gleefully, arms out- 
stretched, as she sighted her beloved emerging from the 
concourse tunnel, pursued by two porters staggering under 
bags plastered with foreign labels. There were some mur- 
mured tendernesses, and a moment later they were careening 
around the circle, tire-chains rattling merrily. Bubbling with 
excitement, Joyce tried to tell half a dozen stories at once. 

“ First thing I did, darling, when I arrived — week ago — 
I went out to see Nancy Ashford. Isn’t she the dearest 
thing? But you hardly knew her. Well — she’s regular! 
. . . I went out to Brightwood and told Nancy all about 
it; how I couldn’t stick it another minute and had had to 
leave him; and could I possibly find anything to do, just to 

‘Keep from going crazy. ... And, what do you think? 
They had just lost a file-clerk, and would I like to do that 
for a week or two, to find out how I would react to the dis- 
cipline of office hours; and, meanwhile, we could all be think- 
ing and inquiring for something permanent... . But, I 
don’t mind if nothing turns up for a while. Really — it isn’t 
dull work, at all; and I quite like it! ” 

“Oh, you’ve begun it already?” 

“Umm-humm! ,.. That same afternoon! ... Just 
took off my hat and went to it. Honestly — it’s a lark. Of 
course, I knew several of the people — Doctor Pyle and 
Doctor Carter, and the red-headed Watson boy, who’s 


242 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


grown a moustache and glasses since I saw him last; and - 
fully a dozen of the older nurses. . . . And — my dear — 
you should see the Merrick person! . . . Don’t frown that 
way! . . . I know you never liked him.” 

‘You mean I never knew him.” 

** Of course! That was the whole trouble! You never met 
him but once, on that awful night! Ugh!... that night!” 

Helen patted her hand. 

* Forget it! We'll never mention it again! ” 

Joyce brightened and resumed her monologue. 

* Well, as I was saying, all you ever knew about him was 
that he had a sentimental notion he must study surgery and 
try to take dear dad’s place. . . . And you thought it a 
piece of impudence, didn’t you? . . . Listen! He’s going 
to come near doing it! Do you know what Bobby Mer- 
rick’s up and done? He’s invented a thing — ” 

The taxi scraped against the curb, and the door-man was 
reaching for the baggage. 

“Look! Isn’t this foxy?” prattled Joyce, as they entered 


the lobby. ‘ All done over! . . . Let’s go straight through 
to luncheon. I’m starving! ... There’s a place — by 
the window. . . .Umm! Duck! That’s Christmasy! ” 


What were you saying about your work at the hospital, 
when I interrupted you? ” asked Helen, as the waiter moved 
away, scribbling on his card. 

“What was I saying? ... Oh, yes— about Bobby! 
He’s made an electrical thing that’s bringing head surgeons 
here from all over. I don’t know exactly what it is — some 
sort of a charged knife . .. awfully complicated. ... 
They're doing operations with it at Brightwood that have 
never been done anywhere before. . . . Something that 
prevents hemorrhages, or something. Nancy Ashford told 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 243 


me about it; but she couldn’t explain it very well. I saw it 
—a big, tall, wooden case full of the most intricate ma- 
chinery you ever saw... .” 

“ Glass things? ” ; 

*Umm-humm! . . . How did you know? ” 

“* Well — they always do have a lot of — of things made 
of glass whenever they use electricity, don’t they?” 

“Naturally. . . . Have some of that wonderful celery, 
darling. . . . Only celery in the world, you know... . 

And handsome? My word! Honestly —I wouldn’t have 
known him! And he always was good-looking! . . . But 
the change in him is simply marvelous! I’m half afraid of 
him. . . . Oh—very professional! Crisp! No nonsense 
—no— sir-ee! And the nurses are all wild and crazy about 
him — and he doesn’t know they’re existing. ... He’s 
doing some of their most important cases out there, now. 

. . Calls me ‘Mrs. Masterson!’ Isn’t thatidiotic? Nancy 
says it’s because I’m employed there. . .. Funny — don’t 
you think?” 

Helen thought it was funny; thought the whole speech 
funny. 

“Really —” Joyce leaned forward ea dropped her 
voice. “If I had the teeniest right to, I’d lose my heart — 
utterly! You know I always was a little bit soft about him! ” 

“I hope you'll not be indiscreet, Joyce.” Re 

“Oh, Dll take pains not to let him know I think he’s 
nice,” she reassured. “ But — I don’t want you feeling un- 
kindly toward him. You really can’t, avoid meeting him, 
you know.” ae . 

“Why not?” 

“* Well — you'll be out at Brightwood, more or less, now 
iim there. 4...” 4 


244. MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


“J don’t see how your work at Brightwood would require . 
my presence.” 


“ But — you’re going out, aren’t you? ... Honestly, 
darling, you’ll just have to be pleasant toward him — for 
my sake! ” 


** For your sake? ” 

Helen experienced a momentary wave of disappoint- 
ment. ... In her long absence from Joyce, she had 
idealized her somewhat; but — she was the same Joyce, 
whom no blunders could chasten; the same unchanged 
Joyce who couldn’t forget anything, or learn anything; 
hopping gaily out of the frying-pan into the fire. 

“ Yes,” repeated Joyce dramatically, “ for my sake! ”’ 

** Then,” said Helen slowly, “‘ I’m sorry I came back.” 

They ate their duck; but it wasn’t very good. 


ed Xen 


That night they saw “The Hypotenuse.” It was a 
rollicking comedy employing a small cast and simple ma- 
terials. A young widow and her contemporary step- 
daughter furtively concealed from each other, throughout 
the first act, that the late Judge Haskins’ junior partner was 
of larger interest than was demanded by his professional 
service as their attorney and business counsellor. Act Two 
developed some delicious situations, adroitly handled. The 
audience was delighted. 

When the curtain had finally settled, after several trips in 
response to warm applause which brought them all back 
together, and then reconsidered them in relays, finishing 
with mama and Polly, hand in hand, Joyce turned ani- 
matedly to offer comment and surprised an abstracted look 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 245 


on Helen’s face. She, apparently, had not been quite pre- 
pared for the sudden onrush of lights. 

**'You’re tired, aren’t you? ” inquired Joyce solicitously. 

“It always takes a day or two, I think, to recover from a 
long journey.” 

* Awfully jolly show, don’t you think? Fancy such a 
mess! You and I —for instance! We’d be honest with 
each other, at least! I suppose we’d just cut the deck to 
see which one was to.get him.” 

** Stuffy in here, isn’t it? ” said Helen. “ Let’s go out and 
prowl in the foyer. Want to?” 


ez Ke 


Joyce’s incapacity for understanding the operations of her 
own mind was spectacularly displayed, early next morning, 
as she dressed to go to Brightwood, babbling about herself 
as a “‘ woiking goil.” 

Breakfast had been served in their rooms. Helen, ex- 
quisite in a dainty lounging-robe, was lingering over her 
coffee and the morning papers. 

“J think it’s simply marvelous,” enthused Joyce, into the 
mirror, “‘ that I’ve been able to adjust so quickly to office 
routine, don’t you? . . . After all these years of indulging 
myself, sleeping late, pottering, lazing about! I’m happier 
than I ever thought I could be again. I know now [Pll 
never be contented, any more, without a regular job.” 

“‘Glad you like it,”’ said Helen, deep in the theatre ad- 
vertisements. ‘‘ What do people say about this new musical 
comedy, ‘ Jasmine’? ” 

““ Very tuneful, I hear. . . . Like this hat? ” 

“ Cute! . . . Suppose Mrs. Ashford might like to come 


246 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


down town, tomorrow, and have dinner with us and see © 
‘ Jasmine’? ” 

Oh, I’m sure she would love it! Ill ask her. And, 
darling — she and Bobby Merrick are such pals. Wouldn’t 
it be nice to ask him, too? ” 

“ Not a bit nice! I don’t know him! I don’t want to 
know him!” Helen’s tone was frankly impatient. 

* Well, you could get acquainted with him. J know him! 
Couldn’t you consider my wishes a little?” Joyce savagely 
flicked probable dust from her coat. 

“Hand me my pocket-book ... there... on the 
mantel. Thanks!” 

Helen opened it and unfolded a letter. 

**Oh—it’s the one I wrote you! ... Well, what 
about it? ” ° 

“ Read it. . . . You will see that you asked me to travel 
five thousand miles to give you some good advice. Now 
that I’ve gone to the bother of humoring you, I hope you'll 
not resent it if I say that your present state of mind in re- 
gard to Doctor Merrick is absurd! . . . If you want. to be 
silly about him, don’t annoy me with it! I won’t have him 
thrust down my throat! ”” 

“ Well — what’s come over you? I hadn’t heard that ~ 
residence in France and Italy made people so squeamish! 
. . . And it seems to me that a person with your admira- 
tion for people who do really valorous things — at a lot of 
cost to themselves — would take a little human interest in | 
Bobby Merrick, slaving himself almost to death, when, if he 
wanted to, he might be lounging on a yacht somewhere in 
the Mediterranean! . . . I heard one of the nurses say he 
had come into a million dollars’ worth of Axion Motors 
when he was twenty-five, and is due for another million 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 247 


when he is thirty! I tell you he deserves some credit! .. . 


Good-bye. . . . Don’t be peeved! ...See you about 
five-thirty.” 

Helen rose, after the door had slammed, and stood look- 
ing down upon the street... . Axion Motors!...A 


million dollars’ worth of Axion Motors! ... Axion! 


XVI 


M:. T. P. RANDALL WAS EXTREMELY SOLICITOUS IN HIS 
attitude toward his charming client. She had telephoned 
him at ten, and they had agreed on a business conference 
at one-thirty. 

He was tall, fifty-five, well fed; grizzled at the temples. 
The tailor who had made his waistcoat might have suc- 
ceeded as a sculptor. He rose, as she entered his padded 
leather and dark mahogany sanctum, dignifiedly offered 
his hand, bowed to the top of her close-fitting gray hat from 
his considerable altitude, helped off the gray fur coat from 
the gray gown, drew out the throne-like chair for her, 
seated her, walked around the table majestically, sat down 
in his swivel-chair, folded his big, pink, newly manicured 
hands on the bare desk, and said again that he was glad to 
see her. He mentally doubted his assertion however and 
looked more than a little troubled. 

Considering it highly important that he should lead the 
conversation into safe channels, he talked of Paris, where he 
had once spent a fortnight, and of Venice, where, he de- 
clared, he would like to live; but it was obvious, from the 
restlessness with which she chafed the backs of her gray 
gloves, that she hadn’t come to hear his impressions of 
Europe. : 

At the first semicolon, she leaned forward in her big chair. 

“You had a long talk with Mr. Brent about my affairs.” 

T. P.— he was known as T. P. throughout the Fourth 
National organization — drew an anxious smile. Now, why 
the devil hadn’t he been told that he was supposed to have 


talked with this rapscallion Brent? He had been under the 
248 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 249 


impression that Brent was to be presumed as having had all 
his business with him by correspondence. 

“Umm!” murmured T. P., deep in his throat. He gave 
it just that quality of indeterminateness which might make 
it pass either for an affirmative, or a mere receipt of informa- 
tion already in hand, or a promise that presently he would 
discourse at more length about the matter when she had 
quite finished her remarks. 

But she was not going to be contented with his ‘“ Umm.” 
He saw that at a glance. 

Mrs. Hudson smiled — a bit roguishly. 

“ There was one man you had to look up to; is it not so? ” 

Her syntax was unfortunately under continental influ- 
ence. It made the query difficult to evade. . . . My Eye! 
— was this innocent child with the wide blue eyes leading 
Detroit’s most resourceful side-stepper into a trap? ... 
Well, he’d follow along, and see what came of it. Ofa 
sudden he remembered; he brightened; he tossed up an 
outspread hand. 

“Rather! ... Uncommonly tall! ... Your cousin, 
T think.” 

** Yes,”’ agreed Mrs. Hudson. 

T. P. took a long breath, exhaled it luxuriously, and felt 
relieved. 

** Must be six feet three, isn’t he? ” 

“* About my height,” said Mrs. Hudson. “ But — he is my 
cousin.” 

“Oh — of course!’ T. P. laughed, boisterously. ‘‘ Of 
course! You knew I was jesting, of course! ” 

She did not join in his merriment. 

_ “ Qdd that you should have forgotten! ” she said mean- 


ingly. 


250 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


When in doubt about what next to do, T. P. always fell 
back on the didactic style. He could stun and bewilder with 
his voluminous vocabulary of technical terms relating to the 
upper ether of large finance. He settled sternly to it, ignor- 
ing their brief exchange of exploratory thrusts, and dis- 
coursed of stocks. Most industrials were good now; motors 
especially; Axion most assuredly. She could be confident 
that her money was prudently placed. Moreover, she could 
sleep soundly o’ nights while the Fourth National looked out 


for her interests. . . . And — by the way —he wanted to 
show her about through this fine new building before she 
left, if there was time. . . . Not quite satisfied with her 


expression, he launched upon an oration of some length, 
rumbling wisely of economic trends, cycles, the periodicity 
of financial mutations now happily stabilized by the Federal 
Reserve. At the first full stop, she said: 

“I would like to see my stock certificates.” 

“To be sure, Mrs. Hudson! Of course! ”’ 

T. P.’s tone was paternal. Inwardly he chuckled. If this 
amazingly good looking young widow had hopes of learning 
how she had become possessed of her Axion Motors by in- 
specting her stock certificates, she was about to be disap- 
pointed. She had caught him napping in respect to his 
relations with her ne’er-do-well cousin, and it was up to him 
to take the next trick in this little game. Well — she would 
discover nothing new, bearing on the question, from these 
certificates. Hadn’t he told Riley to hustle those shares of 
Doctor Merrick’s back to the Axion office to be re-issued in 
the name of Mrs. Hudson? Of course! 

However — just to make doubly sure. He quite dis- 
tinctly remembered having written to Blair, the transfer 
agent of the Axion Motor Corporation, notifying him that, 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 251 


beginning at once, all future dividends on that block of 
stock were to be forwarded to the address of Mrs. Hudson, 
who now owned them, and that the certificates would be 
brought over to him for re-issuance. Surely he had re- 
membered to tell Riley about that. To be on the safe side, 
he’d inquire. 

“Tl send for them,” continued T. P., beaming amiably. 
** Excuse me, please.” 

He was detained in the adjoining office for fully five min- 
utes, and when he returned he was mopping his expansive 
brow with a large, monogrammed handkerchief. Resuming 
his chair, he smiled, not very happily, and said: 

“It may take quite a little time. Had we known you 
would want tosee them, they would have been ready for you. 
We have such things pretty carefully stowed away, you 
know.” 

“Yes,” said Helen, comprehendingly, “ you would have, 
of course.” 

“It’s rather a pity to keep you waiting so long,” regretted 
T. P. Why the devil couldn’t the woman say, ‘‘ Oh — never 
mind about them, then.” 

**T can wait,” she replied, settling comfortably in her big 
chair. 

T. P. drummed on the desk with anxious fingers. 

*“* You know we have them, of course, or you wouldn’t be 
getting your dividends.” 

“Oh — certainly.” 

““They’re just like any other. . . ., You’ve seen stock 
certificates, haven’t you?” He was still amiable, but he was 
growing desperate. 

“Yes . . . and I would like to see these!” She glanced 
at her watch. 


252 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


There was nothing more that T. P. could do about it.’ 
He pushed a button, gave an order, tried to be cheerful, 
tried to be nonchalant; but the conversation was unsatis- 
factory. Neither of them had the slightest interest in it. 

At length the certificates arrived, and he pushed them 
across the desk. 

She slipped the top one from under the broad rubber 
band, spread it out, turned it over, and noted the endorse- 
ment whereby it had been transferred from Robert Merrick 
to Helen Hudson. 

“Thank you!” she said, rising. “ That will be all, I 
think. I shall be in again tomorrow to talk further with 
you.” 

T. P. did not waste time, immediately his client had left. 
He took up the telephone, and in his best bank manner told 
the switchboard to get him Doctor Merrick at Brightwood 
Hospital. The contact was no sooner made than T. P. 
went off the deep end, without ceremony, and reported 
what had happened. The answer he received consisted of 
a few words not properly used over the telephone, which 
really has to draw the line somewhere. 

““ Now — Doc — you’ve got to keep your shirt on! I tell 
you it absolutely couldn’t be avoided! It was either that — 
or tell her we didn’t have the stuff at all! Would that have 


improved the situation any? ... Hell! ... She’s sus- 
pected all along. You might ’a’ known she would! 
That woman’s no ninny!... What say?...Why— 
damned if I know, Doc. She left here — pronto — shot 
out of a gun —a bit flustered, maybe. . . . No—I don’t 
know, I tell you. Perhaps she was. If so, I suppose you'll 
soon find it out! . .. Well, I’m sorry as you are, Doc; 


99 


but you might ‘a’. , 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 253 


There was a metallic click that made T. P. wince. He 
laid the instrument back on its rack, opened the left lower 
drawer of the desk, took out a bottle and a glass; poured, 
swallowed, sizzled and shuddered; replaced the bottle, shut 
the drawer, lighted a cigar, pushed a button. 

** Riley — put those certificates back where you got ’em 

. and if anybody wants me importantly, call me at the 
Athletic Club. Ive a headache.” 


<>. > 


Not often was Helen Hudson a victim of emotional stam- 
pede. Her poise was not a pose; neither was it arrived at 
by effort. It was native to her. 

This afternoon she simply tossed the reins of discretion 
upon the neck of her indignation and abandoned herself to 
the tempestuous rush of it. Mentally at full gallop, she 
hurled herself at Brightwood. 

It was as if a huge, ugly cauldron of anxieties, perplexi- 
ties, forebodings, misgivings and suspicions, which had been 
simmering and bubbling for all the dragging months, had 
suddenly reached that stage of the brewing when it was 
time to pour. 

A taxi waited at the door of the bank as she emerged, 
half-blind with humiliation. She walked swiftly to it, gave 
the driver an order, and sat tense throughout the jour- 
ney. 

This abominable Merrick had placed her in an impossible 
position. . . . No matter about the intent. . . . He had 
doubtless enjoyed his Galahading. . . . But he had made 
her his pensioner; treated her like an irresponsible child; 
helplessly loaded her with an obligation she would probably 


254, MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


be unable to discharge. .... Well, she could disavow her 
willingness to accept anything further at his hands! She — 
could return the capital of it, at once; and set to work toward 
a replacement of what she had spent. 

Exactly what she was going to say to Bobby Merrick when 
she saw him, Helen had not yet determined clearly. Of one 
thing she was sure: she would denounce his officious med- 
dling with her affairs, and let him know exactly where he 
stood in her regard. . . . Heshould have it all back! 

Oh! ... She pressed her shaking fingers against her eyes 
and tried to cool her cheeks with the back of her gloves. 

Barely conscious of the journey, the unhappy girl stepped 
out of the cab as it stopped in front of the hospital, ordered 
the driver to wait — she would not be long — and quickly 
pattered up the broad concrete walk between masses of 
formal shrubbery coated with glistening ice. 


11S 


At the desk in the snug little lobby, she inquired for Mrs. 
Ashford, and was shown into her office, where she quite took 
that pretty lady’s breath away with her exotic beauty. 

“Why — what a joy!” cried Nancy, putting forward 
both hands in greeting. ‘I knew you were in town, and 
have been so anxious to see you!” . 

“Yes,” said Helen breathlessly, and with an effort to 
steady her voice, “I do want to have a good visit with you 


——and I shall—soon. But not —just now... . I find 
I have a rather sudden errand with Doctor Merrick. Could 
I seé hirh? 4... Isfhe here” ‘4 # 


He was here, and she could see. him. Nancy believed 
he had just now finished an operation, and would probably 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 255 


be at liberty. She would send him in, and they could talk 
in her office. 

Nancy went out, her own heart beating rapidly, and closed 
the door behind her. For a while, Helen fidgeted on the 
little divan, fumbled with her pocket-book, latching and 
unlatching and latching, tapping her little gray-shod toes 
impatiently on the rug; then, unable to sit still another 
instant, she rose, walked to the window, and stood gazing 
preoccupiedly at the street, her fingers busy with her coral 
beads. 

At length, the door was quietly opened and as quietly 
closed, and she was aware of his presence in the room. She 
knew he was standing there, just inside the door, expectant, 
waiting for her to turn and face him. ... Why in the 
world didn’t she? ... Would he cross the little room, 
and approach her — speak to her? ... Perhaps not. 

But why didn’t she turn quickly and confront him? 
She had asked for this interview, hadn’t she? 
She had sent for him to come to her, hadn’t she? . . . What 
ever ailed her, anyway? ... The difficult thing about it 
was that she had delayed turning about to face him! 
Every second that passed made the situation more try- 
ing. 

After a young eternity, he spoke — rather unsteadily. 

** You wanted to see me? ” 

His quiet query broke the spell for her. She turned 
quickly, and, leaning against the window, put her out- 
spread hands upon the sill, in a pose that Bobby sorrow- 
fully interpreted as a sort of back-to-the-wall defense; but 
not defiance. Her head was bowed; her eyes to the floor. 
It was so thoroughly against his wish and hope that what- 
ever he had done for her should put her into this attitude. 


256 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


Helen was dismayed at her own sensations. Ten minutes 
ago, she had been ready to do violence. When she had > 
stepped to that window, she had been aflame with a pas- 
sionate anxiety to call him hard names; to hurt him, some- 
how; to let him taste a little of the humiliation he had put 
upon her. ... What had happened to her? ... She 
felt deserted even by her own rage. . .. Well — she could 
not stand there silently any longer. 

She lifted heavy eyes to meet Bobby’s. 

*T must have a talk with you,” she said, in that 
throaty contralto he so keenly remembered; a timbre that 
seemed to set up all manner of curious vibrations in 
him. 

“* Won’t you shake hands? ”’ he begged. 

“No need! ” she said, with a little gesture of futility. 

* Then — will you sit down? ” 

* Thank you — no. I think I can say it — quickly! ” 

Bobby leaned against a corner of Nancy Ashford’s desk, 
folded his arms and listened. 

“JT have just discovered that everything I have in the 
world is —is yours. I have been living, for some time, as 
your dependent. ... I didn’t know. I’m sure you will 
believe I didn’t know . ” 

“Of course you didn’t know! You have nothing to 
blame yourself with — in this matter.” 

She went on as if she had not heard. 

“The very clothes I have onme .. . 

She lowered her head and covered her eyes with her out- - 
spread fingers. 

Bobby could stand no more. With his heart furiously 
pounding, he stepped quickly to her, and took her hands in 
his. For the tiniest instant, she permitted his impulsive 


29 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 257 


gesture of sympathy, and then withdrew from him, shaking 
her head. 

“No! No! I didn’t come here to be pitied!” Her voice 
was firmer now, and there was a note of rising impatience 
init. “ I’ve been pitied — quite long enough! All I came 
to tell you is that all your money at the bank I am going to 
turn back to you; and, as fast as I can possibly earn it, I 
shall pay you every dollar I have spent.” 

Bobby drew a deep sigh of regret, stepped back, and 
leaned his weight against the desk, his eyes brooding. 

“I’m so sorry,” he said slowly. ‘‘ You see — the cir- 
cumstances were very strange. I wanted to spare you, if I 
could, a misfortune that would bring you some unhappiness. 
I guess I went about it the wrong way — but I meant it all 
right. Won’t you believe that? ” 


CS 


For a second, their eyes met in a look that each remem- 
bered later, when, that night, the episode was reviewed, 
inch by inch, and word by word, on sleepless pillows — 
Bobby solemnly wondering whether, had he taken her in 
his arms at that moment, their difficulties might have been 
solved — Helen remorsefully chiding herself for what she 
feared was a serious disclosure of a feeling she had tried to 
batter into submission. 

** Perhaps you did,” she admitted, tugging herself loose 
from his eyes. ‘‘ But it doesn’t make my position any more 
endurable. I don’t’ propose to be pensioned by you! I’m 
going to give all your money back — the capital, tomorrow 
—the amount I have used, at the earliest moment I can 
earn it!” 


258 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


** You mustn’t do that! ” 

Bobby’s voice was stern, commanding. He stood erect 
and faced her determinedly. 

“'There’s more to this than you are aware of . . . more 
than I dare tell you! The lives of many people would un- 
questionably be affected! Whatever you may decide to do 
with that money, you can’t give it back to me! I won’t take 
it! I can’t takeit . . . because you see, J’ve used it all up!” 

Helen glanced up quickly, her eyes wide with amaze- 
ment. She swallowed convulsively. 

“ W-h-a-t? ” she whispered. ‘‘ What is that you say? ” 

*€ Pve useditallup! . .. Doyou know what that means? ” 

“No! Tell me! What does it mean? ” 

“Sit down,” he said gently. “I'll try to explain. 

It’s not easy, though.” 

She walked with some reluctance to the little divan and 
sat. | 

** Perhaps you never had it called to your attention,’ — 
Bobby was feeling his way with caution — “that there is 
sometimes a strange relation between the voluntary, secret 
bestowal of a gift, without expectation of any return or re- 
ward, and certain significant results that accrue from it in 
the experience of the giver. . . . Now I am not sure that 
this money I was so happy to put at your disposal is not that 
kind of an investment. Shortly after I arranged for it, 
something of quite tremendous importance occurred — 
something that dares not be trifled with by ‘either of us. 

It’s almost hopeless to try to make it convincing to 
you, I know. ... Can’t you just take my word for it — 
and trust me — dear? ” 

Helen flushed deeply, and rose — her eyes flashing. 

** No — you’re not dealing squarely with me!” she re- 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 259 


torted hotly. “And I’m not — your—dear! You have 
humiliated me! There are many things I have wanted to 
know, and you seem to be able to clear up some mysteries; 
but you are plainly not disposed to do so. I’m going now. 
I shall arrange at the bank about the money. And — the 
rest of it— the part I’ve spent —I shall pay that back! 
You can depend on it!*’ She was at the door, her hand on 
the knob. 

Bobby stepped swiftly to her side and covered her hand 
with his own. 

** Listen! ”? he demanded soberly. “‘ It is quite important, 
both for your sake and mine, that we do not set every 
tongue in this place wagging with the gossip that we met 
here to have a row. You’re ready to go stamping out 
through the office, rosy with rage. Much curiosity will be 
aroused and explanations will be in order.” 

“Then you can make them! I do not feel that I owe 
anybody an explanation. If you think you do, that is your 
affair! Let me go, please.” 

Bobby did not remove his detaining hand. 

“* My dear,” he said, scarcely above a whisper, “ I appeal 
to your good sportsmanship! Granted —that you have 
cause to be indignant. Granted — that I have blunderingly 
placed you in an awkward predicament. Let us at least 
keep our misunderstanding to ourselves. Please! Compose 
yourself — and we’ll go out to face these people as if there 
were no trouble between us. Wouldn’t that be ever so much 
better? ”’ 

She hesitated for a long moment; looked up searchingly 
into his eyes, like a bewildered little child, and finally 
replied: 

“ Agreed.” 


260 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


He released her hand and she walked to the window, took . 
out a tiny vanity case and consulted her reflection, Bobby 
regarding her with repentant eyes. How wretchedly he had 
bungled everything — everything! 

Presently she turned and faced him calmly, like a stranger. 

“‘ T’m quite ready, if you are.” 

Bobby hesitated. 

“* But — really — don’t you think—” he stammered 
shyly, ‘‘ that a wee bit of a smile might help to—to . ‘i 

“Tl attend to that when we need it! ” 


Oa 


He opened the door and signed for her to precede him. At 
that instant, she became another person, gracious, smiling. 

Nancy Ashford, who had been hovering about, with 
curiosity and some anxiety, met them. She drew a quick 
breath, apparently of relief. 

““1’m so glad you two have found some occasion to be- 
come acquainted at last,’ she exclaimed, searching their 
faces eagerly. 

“* Yes — isn’t it? ” responded Helen, slightly confused over 
her cue. “ Doctor Merrick and I have been talking of so 
many interesting things — some of them quite mystifying, 
I’m afraid.” 

Ah! ... Good! ... So that was it! ... Mystify- 
ing things! ., . . Mrs. Hudson had been asking questions. 

Somehow she had learned — by a chance word, per- 
haps — that Bobby Merrick was in a position to clear up 
some of the strange riddles bequeathed to her by her hus- 
band. ... So—that was what had brought them to- 
gether. ... Good! ... Nancy was radiant. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 261 


“TI hope I may soon have a little visit with you, Mrs. 
Ashford,” continued Helen rather breathlessly. ‘‘ Today — 
I’m in something of a rush. ... Important errands.” 

At the sound of the familiar voice, just outside the door of 
her little filing-room, Joyce came bounding into the circle 
with a shrill exclamation of surprise and delight and a tor- 
rent of questions. 

“Why, whatever brought you here, darling? Why didn’t 
you tell me you were coming so soon? And you and Doctor 
Merrick have actually met! How jolly? Oh — now we can 
have that dinner we talked about! Let’s do it tonight! We 
four! My party! And I'll get tickets for ‘ Jasmine!’ What 
do you all say? Can you come, Mrs. Ashford? ” 

Nancy swiftly sought Helen’s eyes, and thought she de- 
tected a faint expression of annoyance. Should she en- 
courage the dinner project? It was an awkward moment. 

Suddenly sensing her own obligation to take a cordial 
interest in Joyce’s proffer of hospitality, Helen smiled, in- 
quiringly, and Nancy replied, “I should be very happy, 
Joyce. Thank you.” 

“And you can come, too, can’t you, Bobby? ”’ persisted 
Joyce. 

He studied Helen’s face for a brief second, and found his 
heart pounding when she glanced up unmistakably in- 
terested to hear his reply. 

“Tl be very glad to come, Joyce.” 

Helen glanced at her watch. 

“JT must be going,” she said determinedly. “I'll see 
you all this evening, then.” 

The three of them accompanied her to the big, glass- 
paneled doors — Bobby at her elbow, obviously proposing to 
see her to the waiting taxi. The pair descended the snowy 


262 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


steps, his hand on her arm, both conscious that Nancy and » 
Joyce were still standing just inside the door, observant. 


o S 


““We must talk,” said Bobby cheerfully. ‘“ This game 
isn’t over yet.” 

“ True,” agreed Helen, turning toward him with a smile 
that fairly dizzied him. ‘“ And from all indications, you’ve 
let us in for a whole evening of this delightful recreation! 
Whatever made you say you would come to that wretched 
dinner Joyce contrived to plan? Some more of your good 
sportsmanship, I suppose! ” 

Bobby was contrite. His face was overspread with it. 

** Don’t look like that!’ she commanded, her tone 
oddly out of step with her smile. ‘‘ They’ll think we are 
quarreling! ” 

* Well — ” glumly, “ aren’t we? ” 

She laughed. 

“As a dramatist, you seem to be better as a producer 
than an actor! ” 

* But, really, I was going to refuse the invitation. And 
then, when I happened to glance at you, you seemed so — 
so friendly about it...” 

“What had you thought I might do? Scowl at you? It 
was your own suggestion that we appear to be on good 
terms. And-now — well, you have taken advantage of me 
— as usual.” She was still smiling. They had reached the 
curb. The taxi-driver was churning his engine. 

“Tl contrive some excuse,” decided Bobby weakly. 
*T’m sorry.” 

“No! You can’t do that. We’re in for it, and we’ll see 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 263 


it through; and I can promise you that my own feelings 
will not be apparent to anybody.” ‘She hesitated for a 
moment, and added, ‘‘ Not even to you! I'll guarantee not 
to spoil your dinner.” 

Bobby opened the door and helped’ her in. The warm 
grasp of his hand on her arm vexed her — thrilled her. Safe 
in her seat, she no longer felt under compulsion to make 
further show of amiability. The smilé had vanished. He 
held out his hand, and she, annoyed, was obliged to accept 
it. He held it tightly. 

“Good-bye, dear,” he said tenderly. “Please don’t 
think too badly of me. I have blundered, terribly, but — 


my dear — I do love you so! ” . 


# = = Ss 


XVII 


Waren MERRICK ARRIVED AT HIS APARTMENT SHORTLY 
after midnight, he slipped out of his dinner clothes and 
into a dressing-gown, and told Matsu to toss another chunk 
of pine on the fire and go to bed. 

The evening’s entertainment had been a gusty symphony 
set to every key and tempo; brief passages of ineffable 
tenderness, momentary measures of hope, drably padded 
intervals of maneuvering and modulation, spiced with 
occasional breath-taking crescendos that went ripping 
shrilly up the chromatic scale precariously freighted with 
anxiety. The finale, unfortunately, had brought up on a 
most disquieting diminished chord. ... Considering the 
evening, in total, its moods were as fitful and erratic as 
Sibelius’ Valse Triste. 

He had hoped to bring to it the sportsmanly spirit of an 
athlete entering upon a vigorous contest. His dear an- 
tagonist had promised that nobody — not even he — should 
be aware of her irritation and resentment, and he knew she 
would keep her word. If hers would be a difficult part to 
play, his would be more so. All she had to do was to reg- 
ister cordiality. Whoever, with any social experience at all, 
had not learned how to dissemble in pretense of amiability 
when thrown with persons whom one disliked? As for him, 
the part he had drawn called for a cool casualness; not the — 
stiff restraint of renunciation, or a show of ascetic indiffer- 
ence, but the calm courtesy of a man toward a woman he 
had barely met. It would be his task to carry this off con- 
vincingly — this with a heart aflame. 

As he gave himself a brief inspection in the cheval glass 

264 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 265 


before starting down town, he seriously pledged his own 
reflection that he would maintain an attitude of dignified 
chivalry toward the woman whose promised pretense of 
friendship, for an evening, would probably be little short 
of torture. And he had seen it through, almost valorously 
— all but to the end. 

And yet, remorseful as he was over that one brief but 
utter breakdown of self-discipline, which now made their 
relations more difficult than ever, he tingled to his nerves’ 
ends with memories of those few enchanted moments when, 
even fully aware that she but kept her contract, her com- 
radeship had seemed sincere. 

In the mood of a miser, eager to be alone to finger his gold, 
he impatiently dismissed the solicitously lingering Matsu, 
lighted his pipe, and eased himself into a deep chair before 
the crackling fire, determined to live the evening over, item 
by item, and recover its most stirring sensations. 


Ca 


Pursuant to instructions from Joyce, he had called for 
Nancy Ashford. Regally stunning in crimson, with her 
youthful face, glistening white hair, superb figure and re- 
silient step, Nancy was worth all the pride he had in her. 
He told her so, and she thanked him — for that, and the 
flowers. 

Nothing ever escaped her eye. She remarked, as he 
helped her into the limousine, that Richard had a new cap 
and puttees. 

“You haven’t had him in uniform before, have you? ” 
she inquired. ‘I thought you had some democratic con- 
victions on the subject.” 


266 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


“So I had,” he admitted, “ but I’ve changed my mind. . 
He’s part of an institution, with his uniform on, and it helps 
him keep out of mischief. At least, that’s the theory. Be- 
sides, he likes it.” 

There had been a lot of rambling chatter like that, to 
which he had contributed with unusual animation; but 
Nancy dodged from under the fusillade of inconsequential 
talk presently, eager to be enlightened. 

“‘ Bobby,” she said, as his beautiful new car had swung 
into the current of boulevard traffic, and lengthened its 
stride, ‘‘ something tells me this is to be a rather difficult 
event.” net 

“ You always were a keen observer, Nancy,” he conceded. 

** One didn’t have to be gifted with occult powers to see 
that the atmosphere at Brightwood, this afternoon, was 
heavily charged.” . 

*“* Pardon the interruption, but — I like you tremendously 
in that color. You are very beautiful tonight, dear.” 

“‘ Meaning that you don’t want to tell me about it? ” 

** Well — perhaps. ... Something like that.” 

** Very good, then. I shall shut my eyes, ears, and mouth. 
I am the three wise monkeys. I'll pretend I don’t know 
that you two have had a quarrel.” 

* That’s a dear? * 

* And I shall also pretend I don’t know that you silly 
things are so deeply in love you’re: afraid to exchange 
glances for fear your secret may be discovered.” 

“T still think you are beautiful, Nancy.” 

** But dumb! ” 

“No, no! Not that! ... Quite exasperatingly to the 
contrary! ” 

At this she had forgiven him, squeezed his hand, called 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 267 


him her dear boy; and, for the rest of the trip, discussed 
hospital affairs in a most business-like manner. 


Os 


They stepped out, at the Book-Cadillac, into a big-flaked 
snowstorm, and hurried to cover through the revolving 
doors. Joyce and Helen were awaiting them, by appoint- 
ment, on the mezzanine, Joyce almost boisterously gay, 
swishy and sinuous in some green taffeta confection, wear- 
ing the corsage he had sent her; and, unless he was much 
mistaken, she had tucked a cocktail or two under his orchids 
for there was a taut nervousness in her canary gestures and 
a strident overtone in her voice hardly to be had for less 
bother than the embarkation of about three jiggers of gin. 

If Helen observed it, she was apparently resolved to 
ignore it. Seeing it was an occasion for the wholesale ignor- 
ing of unpleasant facts, there was probably no reason why 
she should cavil at this one. . .. What an adorable crea- 
ture she was . . . in the black velvet . . . and the pearls 

. . and his orchids. So she had actually consented to wear 
them! ... Score one against the beloved enemy! 


COU Ce 


Curiously enough, Joyce, from the, first moment, had 
seemed bent upon hurling them at each other, almost 
violently. . .. Maybe it was the gin. (is) | Se ethaps her 
instinct told her there was some unspoken bond between 
them which it was her duty to make articulate. ... Of 
course, it was always difficult to guess what, how, or whether 
Joyce was thinking. ... But, whatever her motive, if she 


fh 
by 


268 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


had one, she was at no pains to disguise her intention to | 
make this little party the occasion for a rapid development 
of their budding acquaintance . . . asifit were some fungus 
that must mature now or never. 

Indeed, she had been utterly ruthless. Over the salad, 
she had chinked a momentary gap in the conversation by 
murmuring to herself, in an exaggeratedly stilted style, 
** Mis-ses Hudson! .... Doc-tor Merrick! ... Dear 
me! ” — with a shrug and a sigh— “‘I had hoped they 
might be Bobby and Helen by this time!” To which Helen 
had replied, leaning toward her, in an apologetic, mater- 
nal undertone, “‘ Drink your milk, little one. There’s a 
good child!” ... They had laughed, their merriment 
in the nature of applause. 


OPS 


The hotel was suffocatingly crowded. Some big trade 
convention was on, and the public lounges and foyers were 
swarming with fussy fat men, wearing long blue and gold 
badges on their lapels, beads of perspiration on their fore- 
heads. Dozens of them were milling about, bound in as 
many directions, teetering themselves crabwise athwart the 
current, begging pardons, right and left, in the tone of 
* Gangway!”’ Their corrugated brows certified that un- 
less they managed to squeeze through, the whole enterprise, 
after all this trouble and expense, would be futile. 

Their weary wives sagged in every available chair, con- | 
scious of their redundant knees, pecking at fresh marcels 
with nervous fingers. A few of the more intrepid attempted 
a languorous indifference toward their unaccustomed cigar- 
ettes which, however, they regarded gingerly and at arm’s 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 269 


length, as foolhardy urchins hold sputtering firecrackers — 
nonchalantly, but with secret concern at the tail of the eye. 

Joyce had impetuously taken Nancy’s arm and led the 
way. 

“Keep close, you two,” she shrilled, over her shoulder, 
“and don’t get lost. We must hurry, so we will not be late 
for the theatre! ”? — and had swept Nancy along into the 
squirming pack. 

Bobby had offered his arm to Helen and she had taken it; 
not perfunctorily, but asif she wished to do so. ... She 
really needn’t have done it. ... Neither Joyce nor 
Nancy could observe them. ... She might have ignored 
his gesture. ... It was not necessary she should play a 
part at that moment. 

They were jostled in the crowd. He had drawn her 
closer to him, and she had responded. ... No—§it was 
not merely that she had been pressed against him from 
without. ... She had responded. ... There was a 
difference. He had drawn her closer to him, and she had 
responded! 

He relighted his pipe, mechanically, and absently held 
the match until it nipped his fingers. 

She had responded so generously that he could feel the 
warm, soft contours of her against his arm. ... She 
needn’t have done that. ... It was not in the book of 
her play. ... Yet, it was what she would have done if 
there had been no estrangement between them; or would 
she? ... Probably not. ... It was hard to think 
straight about this affair. 

Until now, no words had passed between them except 
their brief salutation at meeting, and Joyce’s patter had 
sent even that into eclipse. He felt he should be saying 


39 


270 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


something to her. He despied dull commonplaces, but the 
silence must not be permitted to grow any longer. 

Of a sudden, he had become audacious. 

“T led you this way, once, through a very dark lane,” 
he heard himself saying. 

“Oh — was it? ? she laughed. “I thought we went 
hand in hand. I felt like a little girl being led to her first 
day in the kindergarten.” 

** So — you do remember! ” 

“Rather! I don’t know what I should have done that 
night without you.” And she had looked up into his face 
and smiled. He wondered if she could feel the pounding of 
his heart. . . . They were entering the dining-room. . . 
Joyce waved a hand from a table halfway the length of the 
room. 

“Tell me something, while we’re thinking about that,” 
continued Helen, confidentially. “‘ Why didn’t you let me 
drive you home, that night, or at least put you down as we 
passed your gate? ” 

“ Because I preferred you shouldn’t know me. I thought 
that if you knew, you might—” He had broken off, 
lamely, groping for a word. 

“That was a very appropriate way to begin a friendship 
like ours,” she said crisply, “‘ seeing it was destined to be 
full of little deceits and riddles.” 

“ T am sorry,’ > he said. He must have appeared appall- 
ingly so. 

“* Well — don’t be, then! ” she commanded hotly, with a 
savage little tug at his arm. ‘ You look like Hamlet! Grin, 
I tell you! Your Nancy Ashford knows well enough we 
have been quarreling! I saw it in her face, this afternoon. 
I’m not going to do this farce all by myself! ” 


.m 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 271 


He had looked down into her big blue eyes, amazed at 
this outburst so startlingly out of keeping with her serene 
expression, and laughed aloud. As he reviewed it, now, he 
laughed again. It had been absurd . . . beyond belief! 


oT eo 


*“What’s the joke?”? demanded Joyce, as the waiters 
drew their chairs. 

** Long story,” said.Helen briefly, ‘“‘ and the good man 
laughed at it once. I can’t have him hearing it over again.” 


Nancy looked puzzled. He was secretly pleased over her — 


bewilderment, and amused to see that the little episode had 
put a crimp in her omniscience. 

“Your curriculum is all prescribed,’ Joyce was saying, 
as the waiters hurried away, “‘ all but the dessert. That’s 
an elective. Otherwise, you take what the institution thinks 
will be good for you. No, darling,’ she added, turning to 
Helen, “‘ it isn’t veal. I remembered that you had already 
worked off your credits, majoring in veal.” 

**Do tell us some of your other experiences abroad! ” 
Nancy had begged. “ I’m hoping to go over, for a summer, 
presently, and I’m awfully keen on travel tales.” 

How graciously she had complied! And how charmingly 
she talked of her impressions. Most of the larger cities he 
knew almost as he knew his own, but she had seen things 
that he had missed — intimate glimpses up narrow streets 
and into quaint shops where, it seems, she had frequently 
made the acquaintance of a whole family. ... How 
tenderly she talked about little children! 


eee 


272 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


CaS 


‘In Assisi, I once made some wonderful friends that way, 
in a little shop,” she was saying. “I’m afraid I began 
visiting the Bordinis, at first, to improve my colloquial 
Italian. Of course, I always bought some trifle to pay my 
tuition, or brought along something for the children; but 
after a while, I found myself going there because I liked 
them and really needed their friendship. And, one day, 
little Maria, about three, took dreadfully ill. For three 
weeks, she just hung on to the mere.edge of life. They were 
all so terribly worried. And, not having anything very 
important to do, I was in and out, frequently, through 
those days — ” 

She interrupted her story to unfasten from within the 
neck of her gown a little silver cross. 

** Maria’s mother insisted on giving me this when I left 
Assisi.” 

The trinket was passed around the table. When it came 
to him, he had inspected it, with a feeling of reverence. It 
was holy — for many excellent reasons. 

**T did not want to take it,” pursued Helen, ‘‘ for I am 
sure it was the most treasured thing she owned. It had 
been blessed by the Holy Father, himself, when, as a young 
girl, in nineteen hundred, she had accompanied a pilgrimage 
to Rome.” : 

“So that’s why you’re wearing that cheap little cross! ” 
exclaimed Joyce. ‘“* Does it bring you good luck? ” 

Helen smiled. 

“Perhaps,” she answered. “At least, I like it better 
than any other jewelry I have.” 

“ Very naturally,’ commented Nancy understandingly. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 273 


Joyce was quite attentive. 

“You must have been the family’s main prop, during 
their trouble, to earn their enchanted cross. Let’s have the 
rest of the story. What all did you do for them while Maria 
was sick? Help keep store? Were you the nurse? Go on, 
darling! Tell us all about it! ”’ 

At that point, he had been unable to restrain himself. 
Quite to his own amazement, he had held up a protesting 
hand. 

“No, no, Joyce! We really daren’t ask Mrs. Hudson to 
tell us that!” Instantly he had felt embarrassed by his own 
remark. 

** How funny! Why shouldn’t she tell us? ” 

He had turned to Helen, at that, and asked soberly, “ Did 
you ever tell anybody that story? ” 

“No! Now that you ask — I don’t believe I ever did.”’ 

“* Then I wouldn’t, if I were you. This is a very valuable 
little keepsake, and its chief charm is in the fact that nobody 
knows but you what all you did to earn it.” 

“How perfectly ridiculous, Bobby!” shouted Joyce. 
** Did you know he was so superstitious, Nancy? ” 

**T had suspected it — a time or two.” 

Helen was regarding him with perplexed, wide eyes as he 
put the little fetish into her palm with a gesture that had 
been perilously close to a caress, for his finger-tips had 
lingered there. 

** Sometimes I have thought of sending it back to her. 
You seem to have ideas on this subject, Doctor Merrick. 
Perhaps you will tell me; should I?” | 

** By no means. It wouldn’t be valuable to her any more 
if she accepted it. She really can’t take it back now, you 
see, because — because .. .” 


274 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


Helen’s lips were parted, and she was a bit breathless as_ 
she urged, insistently, “‘ Yes? — because — because what? ” 

“ Well — because — by this time she has possibly — prob- 
ably — used it all up, herself.” 

She stared at him steadily for a moment, as if she had 
seen a ghost. Then, half-articulately, and for his ears only, 
she murmured, ‘‘ So — that’s — what — that — means! ” 

** Yes — exactly! That’s what it means! ” 

Her eyes were misty and her fingers trembled as she re- 
fastened the little cross inside the neck of her gown. 

**T’m glad you told me,” she said, under her breath. “TI 


have so often wondered.”’ 
> > 


Joyce put down both hands with a sudden gesture of 


impatience. 

‘* What on earth are you people talking about? ... Do 
you know, Nancy? ” 

** Oh — vaguely, I think,” she replied. ... “ You 


liked the little towns best, didn’t you, Helen? Let’s hear 
some more about them. There was Bellagio. Tell us about 
that.” 

“Oh, do!” echoed Joyce. ‘“‘ You wrote such wonderful 
letters from there. What was the name of that little hotel — 
on top of the hill? ” 

“The Villa Serbelloni? ” Helen grew moody. “ Yes — 
I quite liked it, at first; but I grew very lonely there. I be- 
came so unhappy I left, one afternoon, on a moment’s im- 
pulse — in a drenching rain.” 

“‘ Why — what was the matter, darling? ” inquired Joyce 
solicitously. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 275 


*¢ Just sheer loneliness! The season was over, really, and 
almost everybody had gone away. There was a young 
woman. I had found congenial, but she turned out to be a 
writing person, and seeing that was what she was there for I 
couldn’t impose myself on her when she needed all her time 
for writing; so, one dreadfully lonely, stormy day, I left.” 

“ Ever see any of her work? ” Nancy wanted to know. 

Helen shook her head. 

“Perhaps you should make some inquiries,” suggested 
Joyce. ‘‘ Maybe you figured in some of her tales, yourself. 
Wouldn’t it be odd to pick up a story and find oneself | 
cavorting about in it? ” 

During all this Bellagio talk, Helen had addressed herself 
chiefly to the others. As she replied to Joyce’s comment, 
however, she turned her eyes slowly in his direction. 

“It’s quite possible I may have qualified for some minor 
part in a story; for I had been as garrulous as a high school ~ 
girl before I discovered her occupation.” 

“I am sure you were the heroine of the piece,’ he had 
declared stoutly. ‘‘ I would swear to that! ”’ 

“You seem as certain as if you really knew.” She had 
leaned slightly toward him. Her nearness gave him a chance 
to mutter, in an undertone, “‘ I do! ” 


5 


One: 


The talk had drifted, then, to ships. Nancy was anxious 
to know all about voyages; what to wear, how much and | 
whom to tip, how long in advance one should book passage 
to insure good space. 

** Helen had hers on a day’s notice, coming back,”’ re- 
membered Joyce. 


276 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


** But it’s not always that way,”’ Nancy argued. “I recall. 
a quite hectic experience we had in getting accommoda- 
tions for some friend of Bobby’s who was suddenly required 
to go to Buenos Aires.” 

He had glanced apprehensively at Helen, and found her 
staring into his eyes, her brows knitted in perplexity. Quickly 
collecting herself, she said: 

*“* Perhaps the season had something to do with the con- 
gestion. When was it?” 

“When was it, Bobby?” queried Nancy. “ You ought 
to remember. You were no end excited over getting him 
off by that boat. It must have been about a year ago; 
possibly a little earlier than this.” 

“‘ Something like that,”’ he had agreed disinterestedly. 

The waiters had handed them menu cards. Joyce and 
Nancy had their heads together in consultation over par- 
fait flavors. Helen had raised her card until it screened her 
face from them. 

“That was very good of you,” she said softly. “I never 
guessed — until now.” 

“J didn’t intend you should. I hope you will never give 
it another thought. I’m sorry the matter inadvertently 
came up.” 

Her face was studious for a moment; then brightened, 
suddenly, with illumination. 

“ Oh — I see! ” she murmured. 

“I wonder if you do.” 

She nodded her head vigorously. 

* Tt’s something like — like my Bordinis — and my little 
cross, isn’t it? ”” 

“Yes — exactly like that! ” 

Joyce had put an end to their cryptic by-play with a 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 277 


demand for light on the dessert problem. ... It had 
been a very tender moment. As he mulled it over now, 
analytically, it occurred to him that had he been called 
away, on some emergency duty, at that juncture, he might 
at this moment be exulting in the hope that their mis- 
understanding had been definitely cleared. ... 


Coo || Xe 


He rose and paced the room, digging his finger-tips into 
his temples, paused at the little table, re-filled his pipe, re- 
plenished the grate, and sank again into his chair. A small 
cathedral clock on the mantel wearily tolled the first quarter. 

Those four strokes, when, on occasion, they caught his 
attention, invariably sent a momentary cloud drifting across 
his mood. It was not so at the half. The clock seemed to 
have cheered up, noticeably, by that time. It was almost 
reassuring when it came to the third quarter. But, always, 
that jaded, resigned, mocking, Omarish da — de — di— 
dum at the first quarter impressed him with the solemn 
asininity of whatever he happened to be doing and the 
futility of everything he was planning to do. It was exactly 
as if Eternal Destiny stretched its long arms and yawned. 
He could never be sure precisely what it said. Sometimes 
the strokes were but four gradations of an articulate sigh of 
inexpressible fatigue. 

The vibrations still lingered. He glanced up. It was 
fifteen minutes past two. ... He resumed his reflections, 
moodily, realizing that his memories, from this point, would 
be disturbing. 


278 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


CEES 


The short trip to the near-by theatre had been unevent- 
ful, made in his own car. As it drew up at the curb, he had 
heard Helen exclaim to Nancy, “ What a beautiful car! 
What is it?” ... He had not caught Nancy’s reply; 
but she knew. 

They were very late, having lingered long at dinner. 
Gropingly following the usher’s little electric torch, they had 
dodged guiltily into their seats which fortunately were on 
the aisle. 

A nimble chorus marched mincingly across the stage, 
single file, in close formation, like a garish caterpillar; 
coquetted, shrieked a piercing blast, broke ranks, and were 


_ joined by the male contingent which sauntered in from the 
- wings. There was a stormy repetition of the theme song, a 
final deafening screech, with arms aloft, and the lights burst 


ml 
% 


ik 


bh Y 


i 


on as the curtain fell. 

Joyce, who had insisted on leading the way, leaned to the 
left, across Nancy and Helen, to hand him the seat checks. 
‘ How vividly every trivial incident stood out now, 
chiseled in high relief. . .. He had reached for the ticket- 
stubs, his movement pressing him close against Helen’s bare 
shoulder. His hand had lightly brushed her arm. Every 
chance contact swept him with a suffocating surge of emo- 
tion. \It was only by the sternest resolution that he resisted 
the urge to touch her. 

He could not remember what the chatter was about at 
this first entr’acte. Joyce seemed to have provided most of 
it — some amusing incident of ‘ Jasmine’s’ opening night 


~ in New York. Nancy was her best listener; Helen smilingly 


gy 


_ half-attentive, half-preoccupied. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 279 


The orchestra trailed in, twitched its E-string; the direc- 
tor raised both hands, swept his crew fore and aft with a 
final inspection; and they were off at full gallop in the de- 
scending darkness. 

He had wished he was not quite so acutely conscious of 
her beside him, fearing she might sense the psychical out- 
groping of himself toward her, Nancy’s experienced ob- 
servation recurred to him. He had told her how keenly 
aware he had been of the girl in the car beside him, that 
night in the country. Nancy had pooh-poohed his naive 
notion that Helen was, of course, ignorant of his sensa- 
tions. 

*“ Nonsense!””? Nancy had scoffed. ‘‘ Do you imagine 
she could have that effect on you without sharing it? 

How little you know about women! ”’ 

It was near the close of the second act that the catastrophe 
occurred. 

He had not been following the silly, threadbare plot with 
enough attention to realize what, if anything, it was aiming 
at. His mind had been concentrated on the magnetic pres- 
ence beside him, what time he was not day-dreaming of the 
happiness he would find in surrounding her with the things 
she ought to have. It was not until he had irretrievably 
blundered that he came awake to the fact that he had un- 
wittingly insulted her. 

The dashing ingénue had returned — it was a colorful 
scene of a country house party — in a luxurious limousine. 
The fact that she was penniless; that the car was the prop- 
erty of the brazen broker who had been pursuing her 
throughout the play with gifts and attentions obviously to 
be credited on account; that the imported gown she wore 
was his by purchase — all this was of no significance to 


280 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


him. ... At that moment, the only fact of any interest | 
to him was the quite good-looking limousine. 

Impetuously, he had turned to Helen — their heads had 
touched, lightly, for an instant — and whispered, “I heard 
you say you liked my new car. I’m not using it much. I’d 
like to lend it to you for the time you’re here.” 

Perhaps, even then, the most serious blunder of all might 
have been avoided had she been quick with an emphatic 
refusal. ... Unsuspecting that her silence meant nothing 
more encouraging than that she had been stunned by his 
raw audacity, and heartened by that misinterpreted silence, 
he had groped shyly, his heart pounding, for the hand that 
he knew lay, palm up, very white against the black velvet. 

Perhaps she had intuitively divined his intention. 
Perhaps the slight movement of his arm gave her warning. 

Or, did she choose that exact second to toy with her 
strand of pearls? ... He would probably never know 
how it had happened. ... The warm velvet stirred un- 
easily under his brief caress. 

The curtain was falling. The house was flooded with 
light. He glanced apprehensively toward her. Her cheeks 
were flushed, and her little fist, tightly clutching her hand- 
kerchief, was pressed hard against her lips. 


SoA, Sa 


On Joyce’s suggestion, they strolled in the lobby. On 
the way up the aisle, Helen had taken Nancy’s arm, and 
Joyce, observant, had tarried until he fell into step with her. 
Animatedly, she had carried the full responsibility for their 
desultory talk. He was glad, for his mind was in chaos. 

When the signal summoned to the last act, they returned 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 281 


in the order in which they had made their exit, and when 
their seats were reached, Helen led the way in, leaving 
Joyce beside him. 


What a beastly cad she must think him! ... But — 
surely her own good sense would tell her he had not meant 
it! ... Not that way! 


He hadn’t the faintest idea what the last act was about; 
sat through it suffering every imaginable torture. After a 
few eternities, the wretched thing was done. 

Their parting was brief, conventional, without one single 
understanding look into each other’s eyes. 

In the morning, he would find her and attempt an ex- 
planation. ... The clock tolled the four quarters and 
struck three. . . . He had an operation to do at nine. 

Wearily he flung off his clothes and went to bed. As he 
relaxed on his pillow, sick at heart, the chimes offered a 
cynical comment on his adroit handling of the evening’s 
complicated problem. 

> > 


Upon his arrival at the hospital, in the morning, the desk 
notified him he was requested to call Mr. Randall at the 
Fourth National Bank, to which he paid no attention. 

Having finished his operation, he called the Statler and 
asked for Mrs. Hudson. She had checked out. 


XVIII 


Abe BRUCE MCLARENS WERE ENTERTAINING DR. ROBERT 
Merrick at luncheon in their cosily furnished apartment. It 
was Sunday, and the three of them were just back from 
Grace Church where the appearance of the distinguished 
young surgeon in the minister’s pew, in company with Mrs. 
McLaren, had excited a genial buzz of pride and satisfaction. 

Bobby Merrick’s recent spectacular contribution to the 
cause of brain surgery had been made much of by the press, 
somewhat to his own dismay; for he had the honest scien- 
tific worker’s shyness of publicity. It had been quite em- 
barrassing to see his invention described in the argot of 
journalistic ballyhoo, and he was not nearly so grateful as he 
would have liked to be for the well-intended eulogies on the 
editorial pages of the dailies, and the sentimental twaddle 
which embellished his biography in the digests and reviews. 

Of course, it really had been a corking story, well worth 
its two-column head on page one. The scribes had left 
nothing out. Young Doctor Merrick’s utter abandonment 
of the leisure to which he had access by virtue of his large 
fortune, to give himself tirelessly to the most difficult and 
discouraging specialty known to surgery, was played up for 
all that the traffic would bear. Had he not promptly barri- 
caded' himself against the fleet of feature writers who bore 
down upon him, the matter would unquestionably have 
been worse. 

“You really owe something to your public! ” one of them 
had twittered, as if she were talking to some movie-struck 
flapper who had won The Times’ beauty contest. 


It was even recalled that Doctor Merrick’s life had been 
282 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 283 


saved, some years ago, at the same hour when another 
eminent brain surgeon, the late Dr. Wayne Hudson, had 
drowned in Lake Saginack. One paper (pink) had broadly 
wondered if the wealthy young Merrick’s immediate de- 
cision to enter a medical school where he trained to espouse 
brain surgery might have been influenced, if not indeed 
directly caused, by that tragedy; but, lacking the details, 
and unable to twist them out of the unhappy hero or his 
associates, it had been content to toss out the hint and let 
the public draw its own conclusions. 

Within eighteen hours after the news broke, Bobby had 
decided that if the liabilities of front page publicity were 
pitted against the assets accruing therefrom, his account 
with Fame was already in the red. It was obvious that a 
new star was better off for a low visibility. His mail was 
crammed with importunities from every known species of 
beggar; appeals from alleged philanthropies ranging all the 
way from foundations guaranteeing international under- 
standing to wildcat altruistics for the relief of hectored blue- 
jays. He was the recipient of home-brewed poetry extolling 
his merits, slobbering songs hymning his praise and hopeful 
of publication at his expense, saccharine love letters, many 
of them enclosing photographs. He was besieged for 
luncheon talks. He became a fugitive, darting from cover 
to cover. 

Even out at Windymere, where he sought seclusion for a 
week-end, shortly after the persecution set in, he was exas- 
perated to find his grandfather proudly and — for him — 
garrulously accommodating a severely tailored young 
woman who required some intimate knowledge of Bobby’s 
boyhood to adorn a magazine story. 

“* Ah — Robert — surprised to see you! ” exclaimed old 


284 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


Nicholas. ‘“‘ We were just speaking of you. This young. 
lady aieaie 

“Yes, I see,’? Bobby had responded icily. “I dare say 
she will pardon us if we change the subject.” 

“That I will not! ” giggled the visitor. 

Nicholas had looked very foolish and helpless over the 
situation until Bobby came to his relief by summoning Meggs. 

“Tell Stephen to drive this lady down to the station, 
Meggs. She is anxious to make the 4:16.” 


ne 


As for his colleagues in the profession, their gratitude and 
generous felicitations had been a source of much pleasure. 
Every day brought dignified encomiums from well-known 
men of his own specialty, thanking him for the unselfish 
manner in which he had promptly made his find available 
to his fellows. He had had letters from every civilized 
country of the world. 

Now that sufficient time had elapsed for his sudden fame 
to jellify, Bobby had shyly crept out into the open to resume 
his normal schedule of activities and recreations. He had 
not yet become accustomed to the stares, whispers, and 
nudges, which singled him out in public places; but, seeing 
he couldn’t sneak about forever like a hunted thing, he 
masked his self-consciousness the best he could and took his 
punishment with an assumption of nonchalance. Today he 
had even risked going to church. 


od Ae 


Doctor McLaren had preached a scholarly sermon to a 
large audience of good-looking people — fully half of whom 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 285 


were under forty — on a topic he hoped would be of special 
interest to his important guest. 

Indeed, what Dr. Robert Merrick was going to think of 
that sermon had loomed so large in the popular young 
preacher’s mind, while preparing his discourse, that it was 
with much difficulty he had restrained himself from the use 
of a scientific phraseology quite beyond the ken of his 
customers — albeit, as church audiences went, they in- 
tellectually registered A-plus; and freely admitted it. 
Grace Church was quite conscious of its modernity. 

** Really, the most forward-looking — indeed the only 
forward-looking church in town!” — Mrs. Sealback was 
remembered to have said in prefacing her suggestion of 
Doctor McLaren as the proper person to invoke the divine 
blessing on that session of the Social Congress which had 
programmed a discussion of Birth Control. 

*“ As to what?” President-of-the-Social-Congress Mrs. 
Cordelia Kunz of Grand Rapids had inquired drily, tapping 
her notes with a cunning little lorgnette. ‘‘ Forward-looking 
on economic questions, social problems, political issues — or 
merely posing as the last outpost of orthodoxy? ” 

Mrs. Sealback, slightly dizzied and not a little nettled, had 
replied that she was sure she didn’t know exactly how far or 
in what direction Grace Church led the way to freedom — 
and snapped her purse several times, quite noisily, to em- 
phasize her disclaimer of further interest in the matter — 
unaware that the brusque gavel-swinger from up state had 
indeed touched a mighty live wire. 


RSZ boa 


Obedient to the necessary precautions however, Doctor 
McLaren had made a few last-minute substitutions for cer- 


286 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


tain erudite terms he feared might overshoot his congrega- 
tion; but, even with these begrudged alterations in the 
cause of clarity, the address was as one scientist to another, 
and the people who heard it were at once flattered and be- 
fuddled by its charming inexplicability. They too wondered 
what Dr. Robert Merrick thought of it, and were glowingly 
proud of their wise young pastor. 

And they had every right to be proud. The Rev. Bruce 
McLaren, Ph. D., was by no means an intellectual coxcomb 
or a solemn blatherskite with a fondness for big words and an 
itch to achieve the reputation of a savant. His scholarship 
was sound, and the sermon that morning was a credit to it. 

Deacon Chester, warmly gripping his pastor’s hand, 
shouted above the shrill confusion of the metal-piped post- 
lude that he guessed it was the most profound sermon ever 
delivered in Grace Church! The statement was entirely 
correct; nor was the word “ guess ”’ used in this connection 
a mere colloquialism. Had Mr. Chester been a painstaking 
stylist — he was a prosperous baker of cookies by the car- 
load lot, and not averse to admitting that he had left school 
at thirteen —he could not have chosen a word more 
meticulously adequate than .“ guess”? to connote his own 
capacity to appraise the scholarship disclosed by that homily. 
Had a photographic plate been exposed to Mr. Chester’s 
knowledge of the subject which Doctor McLaren had treated; 
it could have been used again, duite unimpaired, for other 
purposes. 

> > 


The warm friendship which had arisen between Doctor 
McLaren and Doctor Merrick dated from a raw March 
evening when the rangy, bronze-haired preacher had been 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 287 


brought into Brightwood, unconscious and breathing ster- 
torously, with an ugly and dangerous smash in the right 
squamous temporal. He was muddy, bloody, and limp. It 
had looked bad for him, that night; and the only recesses 
Doctor Merrick had permitted himself, from the time he 
finished the necessary repairs at nine until the next morning 
at seven, were brief pacings up and down the corridor in 
front of his important patient’s door, tugging nervously at 
cigarettes, and disinterestedly accepting the sandwiches and 
milk brought up by a nurse at three. 

Bobby Merrick had liked McLaren from the first moment; 
liked the length and strength of him as he lay on the operat- 
ing table, subconsciously making his good fight for life; liked 
the shape of his broad forehead, the cut of his ears, the cleft 
of his chin, the hardness of his well-tennised right forearm, 
the texture of his hide, the elliptical curve of his thumb. 
All these things were significant. Had Doctor Merrick been 
required, he could have written a two thousand word paper 
on the character of Doctor McLaren before ever he had 
heard him speak. 

He had liked his patient, next day, for the inherent poise 
he exhibited when, rousing for the first time to a vague con- 
sciousness of his surroundings, he had taken in the situation 
at a glance, and, apparently considering it as all in the day’s 
work, had dropped off to sleep, at the nurse’s suggestion, 
without bothering to ask questions. Bobby had liked him 
even more, a few days later, for his quite superior capacity 
to take his punishment — and there was a lot of it — with- 
out flinching or grousing. And, finally, he had liked Doctor 
McLaren’s state of mind when, a week after the accident, he 
had spoken calmly and without rancor of the drunken in- 
solvent who had run him down in a safety zone. 


288 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


“He probably feels bad enough about it,” remarked 
McLaren, in his deep bass, mellowed by an ancestral Scotch 
burr. ‘“ Anyway, I’m not going to press the matter, or 
make myself wretched by mulling it over.” 

“That’s amazingly good sense!” Merrick had com- 
mented, privately resolving to see more of this man when 
he was up and had his boots on. He had never known a 
preacher before. His rather nebulous opinion of the clergy 
had been collected from cartoons, the quips and jibes of 
paragraphers, and satirical sideswipes at the profession 
roughly projected from the stage and screen. He had lately 
thumbed, scowlingly, a nasty novel vilifying men of this 
vocation. He was not conscious of an active dislike for 
them, but shared what seemed to be the unchurched public’s 
general belief that preachers were —to put the matter 
laconically — a bunch of saps. 

Every day, the young surgeon found himself more and 
more pleasantly attracted by his patient, enjoyed his droll 
comments offered in moments when drollery came high, 
admired the adroitness with which he parried the friendly 
raillery of doctors and nurses — chaff invited by his own 
whimsical humor. Almost everybody in the organization at 
Brightwood was in to see him, at one time or another, dur- 
ing his convalescence; and it was quite unanimously held 
that he was a good sport. 

And no less cordially interested had been the Brightwood 
household in the brown-eyed, deep-dimpled Mrs. McLaren 
who had appeared, anguished but admirably controlled, a 
half hour after her husband’s arrival. They had telephoned 
her that Doctor McLaren was seriously injured, suggesting 
that she come at once. When she came, there was no hys- 
teria. ... Would Doctor McLaren recover? They 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 289 


couldn’t say. It was too soon to tell. He was very, very 
badly hurt. ... She took the blow standing, and they 
rejoiced in her pluck. She was invited to stay the night, 
and they were at pains to give her every scrap of available 
information about her husband — both good and bad. 

From the first, Mrs. McLaren was adopted at Brightwood 
on unusual terms. When Doctor Merrick told her, at noon, 
that her husband was putting up a very encouraging re- 
sistance, and had at least an even break in the decision, she 
did not stage a scene. There was a momentary tight closing 
of her eyes, a quick breath of relief, and a misty smile; but 
no theatricals. She had herself well in hand. Bobby liked 
her for that. He was glad to have her about. Sometimes, 
when her husband was asleep, she would read to other con- 
valescents. On several occasions she offered first aid to 
hysterical next-of-kins, who waited while operations of in- 
terest to them were in progress. One day, upon invitation 
of Doctor Pyle, she went into the operating-room to see 
“some interesting surgery’? — from which entertainment 
she hastily excused herself, however, when a diminutive 
saw began making noises that played the deuce with her 
digestion. 

The McLarens were, by popular suffrage at Brightwood, 
* all to the good.” 

o> > 


One afternoon, the Reverend Bruce said to Doctor 
Merrick, as the latter sat by his invalid chair, visiting — 
not very professionally, but with a hope of hearing a few 
more Scotch stories: “‘ Beloved, I’ll soon be out of here, and 
I’m just a bit anxious about my bill. My income is small, 
and my present balance at the bank, if there is one, would 


290 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


amuse you. Of course, I know what the hospital charges 
are, and I can manage to pay them. But I have been 
afraid to ask about your fee, thinking perhaps the shock 
wouldn’t be good for me. Speaking of the Scotch — what 
are you going to charge me? ” 

“* Well — [ll make you a proposition, dominie. You have 
given me a chance to patch your head. I’ll give you a chance 
to do something for my soul. And we’ll call it square. Ill 
take it out in trade. How’s that?” 

** It’s mighty generous,”’ rumbled McLaren, in a tone at 
least three added lines below the bass clef. “‘ I'll expect you 
to come in and attend my church, soon as I am in the run- 
ning again.” 

** Oh — dol have to go to your church for this treatment? ” 

** Well — I came to your hospital, didn’t I, for mine? ” 

** You win! ” said Bobby submissively. ‘‘ I'll be there! ” 


SS 


Pursuant to his promise, he had gone to Grace Church on 
that fine May morning, after having telephoned the Mc- 
Larens he was coming, and having accepted their invitation 
to return with them to their apartment, afterwards, for 
luncheon. Betty McLaren had quite enjoyed the sensation 
of presenting him to many of their friends. She had been 
very proud of Bruce’s performance in the pulpit. She was 
having a good day. . . . Would Doctor Merrick have two 
lumps or three; cream or lemon; and wasn’t he surprised 
to see so many young people in the congregation? 
Doctor Merrick would have one lump; neither cream nor 
lemon; and was it anything to be surprised at that young 
people went to church? 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 291 


“Oh — quite!” replied Doctor McLaren, helping his 
guest to a portion of a delicious omelet. “ That’s our one 
great satisfaction! You see — the students and the young 
business and professional people have outgrown the old 
traditions and are eager for an — shall I say an intellectual 
approach to religion. We have been trying to give it to 
them.” 

“‘T noticed that,” said Bobby. ‘“‘ Your sermon was very 
scholarly; and they liked it, I am sure.” 

** Well, doctor — if you don’t mind being helpfully candid 
with me, exactly how did it strike you — as a scientist? ”” 

“Oh, I’m not much of a scientist. A surgeon doesn’t 
have to be a scientist — just a good mechanic.” 

Betty McLaren protested with a laugh. 

“Come now, Doctor Merrick! The very idea! You — 
not a scientist? We know better than that! ” 

* At all events, you have the scientific outlook — the 
scientific approach,” insisted Doctor McLaren. ‘ Perhaps 
you noticed at what pains I was to avoid the old stock 
phrases of theology.” 

“IT fear I wouldn’t recognize them as such,” confessed 
Bobby. ‘‘ But — what’s the matter with the old termi- 
nology? ” 

“Obsolete! Misleading! We’ll have to evolve a new 
vocabulary for religion, to make it rank with other subjects 
of interest. We’ve got to phrase it in modern terms; don’t 
you think so?’ Doctor McLaren was eager for his guest’s 
approval. 

“* Perhaps,”’ agreed Bobby tentatively. “I don’t know. 
Whether people could learn any more about religion by 
changing its names for things of concern to it, ’'m not sure. 
It just occurs to me — casting about at random for a parallel 


292 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


case — that the word ‘electricity ° means ‘ amber.’ All that 
the ancients knew about electricity was that a chunk of 
amber, when rubbed with silk, would pick up a feather. 
Now that it has been developed until it will pick up a loco- 
motive, electricity still means amber. They never went to 
the bother to change the name of it. Maybe they thought 
there was at least a pleasant sentiment in retaining the 
name. More likely, they never thought about it, at all. Too 
busy trying to make it work, I suppose.” 

“Humph! That’s a new idea. Then you think it doesn’t 
make much difference about the phraseology of religion? ” 

“It wouldn’t — to me,” replied Bobby, hoping he had 
not too ardently objected to a pet theory of his host. 

“ Well — there seems to be a demand for a more adequate 
interpretation of theology. We are trying to be a little less 
dogmatic in our assertions and a little more honest. For 
instance — I think it’s ever so much better to say frankly 
that God is an hypothesis than to attempt to offer proofs 
which fail to stand up under their own ponderosity.” 

Bobby was tardy with a rejoinder, and both McLarens 
silently quizzed him out of the tails of their eyes. Surely he 
ought at least to believe in the Deity as an hypothesis! 

He observed that they waited. 

“ T’m afraid I don’t accept that,” he said at length, rather 
shyly. 

“* Oh — Doctor Merrick! ” reproved Betty disappointedly. 
“You don’t mean to say that you do not believe in God, 
at all!” 

“I mean that I do not think of God as an hypothesis.” 

“But — my dear fellow,” exclaimed McLaren, ‘“ we 
really have no hard and fast proofs, you know! ” 

“‘ Haven’t you? ” asked Bobby quietly. ‘I have.” 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 203 


The two forks in use by the McLaren family were simul- 
taneously put down upon their plates. 
*“* Er — how do you mean — proofs? ” queried his host. 


Op Ss 


Bobby wished then that he had smilingly deferred to the 
minister’s theory. He had no relish for controversy. And 
this was no place for it, had he been no end a debater. 
Moreover, he knew he was not in a position to explain what 
he had called his proofs. Lamely he admitted that what he 
had considered sufficient evidence for the existence of God 
might satisfy no one but himself. He privately hoped the 
conversation might soon find safer going. 

*“* You’re probably arguing from ‘ design ’,”” McLaren sug- 
gested bookishly. 

‘“* Oh — probably,” said Bobby, with a gesture of dismissal. 

“The whole business of institutionalized religion,” re- 
sumed McLaren, didactically, “‘demands reappraisal! It 
appalls me to contemplate what must be the future of the 
Church when all the people who are now fifty and up are in 
their graves! This oncoming generation, now in its adoles- 
cence, is not in the least way concerned about organized 
religion. Religious enough, instinctively, I dare say; but 
out of sorts with the sects; weary of their bad-mannered 
yammering at one another over matters in which one man’s 
guess is as good as another’s, and no outcome promised 
either in faith or conduct, no matter whose guess is right! ” 

** Ts it that bad? ”? commented Bobby. “I hadn’t known 
the churches were losing ground. There seems to be such 
a lot of them.” 

* Yes — too many!” grumbled McLaren. “ ‘Too many 


294 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


— of the wrong kind! ... Take so important a matter, 
now, as the nature and mission of Christianity’s author, 
himself. A Christ who can help us to a clearer perception 
of God needs to be a personality confronted with problems 
similar to ours, and solving them with knowledge and power 
to which we also have access — else he offers us no example, 
at all. 

“* But here we have a majority of the churches trying to 
elicit interest in him because he was supernaturally born, 
which I wasn’t; because he turned water into wine, which 
I can’t; because he paid his taxes with money found in a 
fish’s mouth, which — for all my Scotch ingenuity — I can’t 
do; because he silenced the storm with a word and a ges- 
ture, whereas I must bail the boat; because he called back 
from the grave his friend who had been dead four days, while 
I must content myself with planting a rosebush and calling 
it a closed incident! What we want is a Christ whose serv- 
ice to us, in leading us toward God, is not predicated upon 
our dissimilarities, but upon our likenesses! 

‘In our church, we’re trying to offer a Christ who is not 
a mere prestidigitator — a magician who feeds an acre of 
people from a boy’s lunch-basket — but a great prophet 
and an understanding friend! Don’t you think a man can 
accept that, and still be a sound scientist? ” 

Bobby accepted a light from his hostess’ hand, and slowly 
nodded. ‘ 

‘I know very little about the conflict between the tradi- 
tional estimate of Christ and the more recent theory. View- 
ing it superficially, I should say that neither system would 
appeal very strongly to this age. Isn’t the modern school 
just substituting a new metaphysic for the old one? Our 
generation is doing all its thinking in terms of power, energy, 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 295 


dynamics — the kind you read about, not in a book, but on 
a meter! Why not concede the reality of supernormal 
assistance, to be had under fixed conditions, and encourage 
people to go after it? ” 

* That sounds a little as if you believed in prayer, Doctor 
Merrick,” said Betty wistfully. 

“You mean — getting down on your knees to wish you 
had something? ” 

““ Oh, it’s more than that! ... Asking God to give it 
to you!” 

‘“* Well, that depends on your credit.” 

** Agreed! ”? nodded McLaren. 

*‘’m afraid I don’t quite understand,” said Betty. 

*“Why, he means that unless one has been living up to 
one’s best ideals, it’s useless to ask for God’s approval and 
assistance. That’s obvious.” 

“No,” said Bobby. “ That is not what I meant. If 
you’re interested, I’ll tell you a story.” 


OS 


For the next two hours — they had moved to the library 
on Bobby’s hint that they had let themselves in for an ex- 
tended tale—the McLarens sat scarcely daring to trust 
their own hearing. 

Eager to give them all the steps of his spiritual progress, 
in their exact sequence, he had begun back in Randolph’s 
studio. Carefully picking his way with a care to the avoid- 
ance of any act of his own, performéd in pursuance to the 
Galilean theory of availing prayer, he laid the facts before 
them in a dispassionate recital. 

He finished as he had begun. He could hardly expect 


296 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


them to believe it, he said. He hadn’t believed it; had been 
disgusted by it; intellectually offended by it; in violent 
revolt against it; but — well, there it was! 

“How utterly trivial,” said McLaren humbly, “ my 
whole program of preaching seems in the face of such 
astounding possibilities! Why — we’ve been trying to teach 
religion without — without knowing what it’s about! ” 

** Oh, I shouldn’t go so far as to think that!” consoled 
Bobby. ‘‘ You’ve inspired people to take stock of themselves. 
They can’t help being better for every serious thought you’ve 
given them about life and duty. That’s ethics. And ethics 
is decidedly important. This thing I’ve been talking about 
is not in the field of ethics. It belongs rather to science. 
We have been at great pains to construct devices and 
machinery to be energized by steam and electricity and 
sunshine; but haven’t realized how human personality can 
be made just as receptive to the power of our Major Per- 
sonality.” 

“T feel, today,” said McLaren, “as if I’d been doing 
nothing — exactly nothing! ”’ 

“By no means! You have been doing some highly 
* necessary work in clearing away the old superstitions; the 
old irrelevancies. That’s not labor lost, you may be sure! 
Only — as I listened, this morning, I couldn’t help wishing 
that this new interpretation of religion which you are so 
splendidly equipped to offer might go further and show how 
soundly scientific religion is. You counseled us, today, to 
accept the evolutionary hypothesis. You said — if I recall 
correctly — that we could explain everything we have and 
are by that theory. ... Now-—lI don’t agree with you. 
Perhaps our bodies derive from some pre-human type of life. 
Perhaps all romantic literature is but an elaboration of the 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 297 


animal’s urge to reproduce itself. Perhaps our brains are 
but refinements of elementary nerve ganglia that used to 
respond, automatically, to the necessity for food and shelter. 

It hasn’t been proved. You were ever so much more 
sure of it, in your pulpit, than my biology professor was, in 
his classroom. ... But — assuming a physical evolution, 
biology has no explanation to offer for human personality. 
You ask old man Harper how he accounts for aspiration, 
penitence, inquisitiveness about our origin, concern about 
our future — and he’ll say, ‘ I’m not a theologian, sir! ma 
biologist! * ”” 

** And I suppose you’re hinting,’ smiled McLaren, “ that 
my chief business is to account for aspiration, penitence, and 
man’s passion to be a time-binder — and if anybody in- 
quires what I think about evolution, I’d better reply, ‘ I’m 
not a biologist, sir! I’m a theologian!’ ” 

** Something like that,”’ agreed Bobby. 

** T wonder if we modernists,”’ said McLaren, after a con- 
siderable pause, “‘ are not somewhat in the predicament of 
Moses, who had enough audacity to lead the slaves out of 
their bondage, but lacked the ingenuity to take them on intoa 
country that would support them. We’ve emancipated them; 
but — they’re still wandering about in the jungle, dissatisfied, 
hungry, making occasional excursions into paganism and 
experimenting with all manner of eccentric cults, longing for 
the spiritual equivalent of their repudiated superstitions — 
sometimes even wishing they were back in the old harness! ” 

** It’s worth while to have fetched them out of that,” said 
Bobby. “ It ought to be equally interesting to lead them on. 
They mustn’t go back! But they will—if they’re not 
pointed to something more attractive than the jungle you 
say they’re in.” 


298 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 
boa o> 


As he left the house at four, McLaren followed him out 
to his big coupé parked at the curb. 

“ Merrick,” he said rather timidly, “‘ would it be asking 
too much of you to come to my church again next Sunday? 
I’m going to have something a little more constructive to 
offer — and I’d like your reaction.” 

**T would gladly, but I shall be on the briny deep. Sail- 
ing Saturday to France, en route to Vienna to see a colleague. 
I’ll be happy to come when I return.” 

He stepped on the starter and the powerful engine hummed. 

McLaren gripped his hand. 

“* Merrick — just a minute! ... We modernists have 
been tying to show how religion is not at odds with science. 
What we’ve got to do now is to show how religion is a 
science! Isn’t that what you mean? ” 

“* Exactly! Nothing less or else than that! You have it! 
More power to you! See you in September! ” 


XIX 


HA acco MERRICK, POURING THEIR COFFEE IN THE SUNNY 
breakfast room of her over-Louised apartment in Boulevard 
Haussmann near the Etoile, glanced up shyly at her dis- 
tinguished guest, finding it difficult to identify him as her son. 

His mouth was somehow different. Ungifted with any 
capacity for character analysis, she was unable to define the 
change, but some dormant instinct told her it was other 
than merely functional; it was organic, structural. 

It was not an austere mouth, neither was it pessimistic; 
but it had put off its adolescent wistfulness. It no longer 
entreated or anticipated, or even inquired; it accepted. 
The mouth had none of the tight-buckled smugness of self- 
imputed infallibility; none of the haughty protrusion of 
authority in repose; but it looked as if it were concerned ~ 
only with facts, and had learned to be very particular about 
them. If they had really been shown to be facts, the mouth 
accepted them —Jet the facts be fair as a May morning or 
ugly as sin. 

And his eyes were somehow different. They seemed 
deeper set, not as if they had winced but retreated from 
sights they had found disagreeable — experienced eyes that 
were used to looking at suffering, but not without great cost 
to themselves. They were not sad or weary eyes, but one 
felt they had seen so much they would not again widen 
readily with surprise. They did not cynically defy you to 
startle them; but you knew there was nothing you would be 
likely ever to say or do that would make them blink with 
amazement. 

There was a difference in his hands; same long, slender, 

299 


300 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


artist fingers — but they had left off groping uncertainly for 
things. They had achieved a sureness, a poise, a confidence 
not to be had at less expense than the honest, tireless, dis- 
criminating experience of dealing with facts — let the facts 
be no end unpleasant. 

In short, they were the mouth, eyes, and hands of a 
surgeon. 

Bobby’s decision to go in for a profession had failed to 
impress her favorably. Beyond a feeling — which she 
tardily and peevishly expressed —that he was enslaving 
himself unnecessarily, she had been left unstirred by his 
resolution. His completion of his medical course evoked 
only a request that now he was finished with school she 
dared say he would be able to run over and spend the 
summer with her. Later, when he had settled to the rou- 
tine of an occupation demanding a devotion all but cloistral, 
she confided to her intimates how unfair it was that he 
should give his life to strangers when his own widowed 
mother stood in such desperate need of him. Her infre- 
quent notes, in purple ink and big sprawling letters, 
blubbered with self-pity and. petulant accusations of in- 
difference; but her mileage was about as good as ever, 
and she was rarely alone except when asleep. 

When however it had been called to her attention — she 
never read the journals or reviews herself — that a young 
Doctor Merrick of Detroit — could it possibly, her inform- 
ant wondered, be her own Bobby? — had been making 
himself famous by the invention of a remarkable surgical in- 
strument, her pride knew no limits. Suddenly aware that 
she had sacrificially offered him, years ago, on the altar of 
humanitarian service, and had been waiting hopefully for 
the day when her unselfish renunciation of her maternal 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 301 


claims on him might be publicly recognized, Maxine 
hastened to collect the tribute due her valiant and uncom- 
plaining martyrdom, inviting all and sundry to view the 
stake whereon she had sizzled through the long-drawn 
days when her faith and hope were under fire. 

For the space of a week she romped about among her 
acquaintances, accepting with happy tears their high-keyed 
chirps of felicitation, and cabled a mawkishly sentimental 
message to her son which fervently thanked the good God 
for making all her wonderful dreams come true, and cost 
her four hundred and fifteen francs. 

This morning, Maxine lacked but a decade of looking her 
age, and felt even closer to it than she appeared. At no 
little cost she had planned the brilliant luncheon she was 
giving today at two when Bobby was to be triumphantly 
exhibited to a half dozen young old ladies — mostly self- 
exiled Americans who had either outlived, outgrown or 
outworn their relatives — and as many modish and musty 
old gentlemen with gray moustaches and ginny breaths. 
She had been bland with her statement that they were ex- 
ceptionally favored by this invitation to meet her boy 
prodigy, and privately hoped he had matured sufficiently 
to justify the story of his wide distinction. It had not 
occurred to her that he would return to her with that kind 
of a mouth, those eyes, those hands, which accused her of 
being not a day under fifty-six. 

Accustomed to playing réles on short notice, suggested 
by her own volatile caprices, she determined to meet this 
awkward circumstance on its own ground. She would 
enjoy being the mother of a lion, even if the fact that the 
lion was no longer a cub would make it difficult for her to 
be quite so kittenish as usual. She was giving herself a dress 


302 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


rehearsal, this morning, of the new part, and was almost 
matronly. | 

“You'll love them, Bobby! ... Such dears! 

And — Bobby.” She held up a warning finger and twinkled 
it mysteriously. “‘— I’ve asked my adorable Patricia Liv- 
ingstone to come with her mother. We’ve been so anx- 
ious to see you two together. You'll be enchanted with 
her! ” 

Bobby grinned amiably and said he was going to be 
happy to meet them all, especially someone his mother 
considered adorable. It was obvious she was preparing 
for this event as if it were a coronation, and he was resolved 
to humor her. God knew it was little enough he had ever 
been able to do for her pleasure. He would today atone 
for all his failures to be what she wanted him to be by going 
cheerfully into an affair which, he suspected, would establish 
his utter asshood as a fact beyond controversy in the opinion 
of any sensible person present. 

Considering the will —in this instance — equivalent to 
the deed, he later scored up the party to his credit; though 
he was unable to attend it. 


nn <e 


Bobby Merrick’s decision to request a four months’ leave 
had been based ostensibly upon an extended correspondence 
with Dr. Emil Arnstadt of Vienna. Arnstadt had been long 
at work on the coagulation cautery project before the Mer- 
rick invention was announced. Immediately he had sought 
full information about it which was promptly and cheerfully 
given. Then had sprung up the warmest attachment be- 
tween them, leading to Arnstadt’s ardent hope that Doctor 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 303 


Merrick would come to Vienna for a leisurely conference on 
their mutual interests. 

**We have much to give each other,’ wrote Arnstadt. 
** It is well we should meet.” 

In the scales alongside Arnstadt’s intriguing invitation 
was an importunate letter from Jack Dawson, down on all 
fours in supplication. 

“No small matter, I tell you, to be asked into conference 
with Arnstadt! You’ve got to come. It’s equivalent to a 
command! You’ve got to come for my sake! You must 
realize I’ve never felt decent about the way I came here as 
the winner of a prize you tossed into my lap. You shouldn’t 
have done it. Of course, as it has all turned out, you’ve 
more achievement to your credit than had you written that 
exam in full for old Appleton and taken the persimmons 
you so jolly well deserved. I never had any illusions, old 
chap, about my winning the first honors and this prize. 
You handed them over to me because you thought I needed 
them more than you. I never felt easy about it. But — now 
that Arnstadt wants to do you this honor, don’t refuse. It 
will make me a heap more comfortable, I can tell you! ”’ 

But these pressing invitations to Vienna were not the 
actual driving reasons why Bobby Merrick had decided to 
spend the summer in Europe. The real tug, he was bound 
to admit, resided in the fact that Helen Hudson was con- 
ducting a small party of tourists through Italy and France. 
He had a hope of meeting her. She was interfering with his 
work, disturbing him in his sleep, making him restless, absent 
minded, distraught. However she might regard him, he 
must see her again, if to no better purpose than to change 
the torturing mental picture he carried of her, shamed and 
hurt by his unintended impudence. Some kind of recon- 


304. MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


ciliation must be attempted. He had accepted his expulsion 
from his Fool’s Paradise, and no longer cherished the notion © 
that he could reinstate himself with Helen; but it would be 
worth the trip to see her — let her be indignant, indifferent, 
or contemptuous. He must dispose somehow of this haunt- 
ing picture of her, hurt and humiliated. 

He had kept track of her movements through Joyce, who 
had quite voluntarily confided the essential facts of Helen’s 
sudden departure from Detroit the next morning after the 
execrable theatre party. It was apparent that Joyce had 
not been informed — and equally apparent that she very 
much wanted to know — what business had drawn her 
young step-mother impulsively out to Brightwood, that 
winter afternoon. In Joyce’s mind there seemed an in- 
evitable sequence relating that event to Helen’s sudden 
departure for New York, early next day, on some unex- 
plained errand. 

Short of actually putting a thumbscrew on him, Joyce’s 
inquisitiveness to learn how much Bobby knew about it was 
persistent, ingenious, desperate; but she received small pay 
for the news she offered as bait. 

Exactly why Helen Hudson wanted or needed employ- 
ment badly enough to become a routing agent in the office 
of the Beamond and Grayson Travel Bureau, Joyce couldn’t 
imagine. It was so unlike her. She hated routine. She 
wasn’t used to taking orders or keeping hours. She was 
about as practical as a Persian kitten on a satin pillow. 

Bobby had had to listen to an inordinate amount of this, 
astounded at his own patience, though in his honest mo- 
ments he reflected that had Joyce not prattled so volubly of 
her own accord he would have been obliged to prime her 
to it. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 305 


He was thankful enough for her gift of garrulity the day 
she told him Helen was about to leave the New York office 
for Cherbourg, as the conductor of a small party. 

“Does Joyce annoy you, Bobby?’ demanded Nancy 
Ashford one afternoon, with her disconcerting directness. 

“Oh — not at all!” he had replied, feeling a bit silly. 

“As I thought! ... She has just been offered an in- 
teresting position as a home visitor with the Juvenile Pro- 
tective League. I shall press her to take it.” 

Duly pressed, Joyce accepted the new job. On her last 
day at Brightwood, she cornered him as he was leaving the 
hospital at five. 

**T won’t be seeing you any more, will I,” she said. “‘ I’m 
leaving, you know.” 

“‘ Why — that is true,”’ he replied, as ifit had not occurred 
to him before. ‘‘ You'll be busy, and you know how this 
ties me up here. I do hope you like your new work. You 
must let us know how you get on with it, Joyce.” 

“You couldn’t come and see me sometimes? I’m going 
to be horribly lonely.”” It was evident that the speech cost 
her. something. She forced it with an effort. 

*Oh—I don’t go anywhere. ... Unsocial as an 
oyster. ... This business is cruelly confining. Some day 
I hope to have a little more time for —” 

She laughed, nervously, mirthlessly. 

“‘ Don’t say any more, Bobby. It’s plain you don’t want 
to. ... Good-bye! I may not see you for a long time.” 

He took her cool hand and repeated his good wishes. 
The episode left him uncomfortable: It had been a de- 
cidedly awkward situation. Maybe, if old Tommy could be 
bucked up, somehow, Joyce might be willing to give him 
another try. It was worth looking into. 


306 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


So iS 


Arriving in New York that Friday morning, the twenty- 
second of May —he was sailing on the Majestic the next 
day at four — Bobby had hunted his old friend down and 
was startled at the change in him. Tommy was seedy, shiny, 
spiritless, and had skipped patches under his jowls in shav- 
ing. . .. Not much wonder Joyce wanted some other em- 
ployment besides looking after Tommy. 

They had lunch together and tried heroically to recover 
their long lost collegiate mood, but it was rough going. Too 


much water had gone under the bridge. ... Too little 
water had gone into Tommy. 
** Sometimes —”’ Masterson furtively pushed a soiled 


cuff back into his coat-sleeve, and attempted to steady his 
leaky spoon. “‘ Sometimes, I’ve had a notion to end it. If 
I wasn’t such a damned coward, I’d have done it long ago.” 

So — there being at last a definite motion before the 
house, Bobby discussed it. Masterson was of the artist type 
that required a deal of encouragement and adulation. It 
couldn’t be laid on too heavily. Tommy had always pos- 
sessed an almost infinite capacity for absorbing glory, laud, 
and praise. Unquestionably Joyce could have kept her man 
on the rails had she been a little less frugal with his necessary 
rations of ambrosia. Well, it was high time he had some. 
Bobby fed him on the rich confectionery of appreciation all 
day and left him hilariously drunk with it at midnight — 
drunk as ever he had been on whiskey. He was going to 
perk up and show ’em, by the Eternal, that he had the stuff! 
He’d been temporarily depressed, but — as Bobby had said 
— that was naturally to be expected of any man gifted with 
so sensitive a creative imagination! And he’d been drink- 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 307 


ing too much; but he could stop it. He would stop it! 
And there was his hand on it! The worm had turned! ... 
And a good deal more like that. 

Before he turned in, Bobby wired to Nancy. 


JOYCE URGENTLY NEEDED IN NEW YORK STOP TOMMY HAS 
FINISHED WITH J BARLEYCORN STOP IS FULL OF REVIVED 
AMBITION STOP DEMANDS REGULAR MEALS ENCOURAGEMENT 
COMPANIONSHIP STOP STRONGLY COUNSEL HER TO HELP 
HIM MAKE GOOD STOP. PUT IT UP TO HER AS IMPORTANT SOCIAL 
SERVICE STOP SHE WILL STILL BE WORKING IN INTEREST OF 
JUVENILE PROTECTION STOP YOU NEED NOT TELL HER THAT 
STOP AFFECTIONATELY MISTER FIXIT P S AND HERE IS HOPING 
FOR BETTER LUCK THAN USUAL IN MANAGING SOMEBODY 
ELSES BUSINESS R M 


Sunday afternoon he was roused from a nap in his steamer- 
chair to receipt for a radiogram. He smiled with pleasure. 


JOYCE LEFT FOR NEW YORK AT NOON 


OS 


** Patricia paints beautifully! ”? continued Maxine, passing 
Bobby his cup. 

** Does she, indeed? ”’ 

** Batiks.” 

Bobby’s eyes wandered disinterestedly over the head- 
lines on the front page of Le Matin at his elbow. 


*“* Any news? ” 
“No. ... But— what’s this? ... Seven Americans 
hurt in a railroad accident near . . . Oh, my God!” 


Maxine rushed after him as he dashed from the room and 


308 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


found him telephoning for a taxi. For the next five minutes, 
while he frantically tossed a few necessaries into a bag, she 
hovered at his elbow, extracting broken phrases from him. 


; “Terrible accident . . . my best friend . . . have 
to go/sieya, awfully:'sorry.) 6°30.) Noli? ina Net 
Have to go — at once!” 

“But — Bobby! ... My party! ... Surely, you 
wouldn’t do sucha thing tome! ... Be reasonable! 
You can start tonight, just as well! . . . Oh! I think this 
is just too cruel — too cruel! ” 

He wasn’t hearing her. ... Luncheon? ... Ridicu- 
lous! ... He kissed her wet face and rushed out. 


There was no time for the sluggish automatic lift. He ran 
down the stairs. 

Ordinarily, the deafening roar of the propellers exas- 
perated him; gnawed the insulation off his nerves, bit by 
bit. Today he was barely conscious of the racket. He had 
seen nothing on his way to Le Bourget field, and was equally 
indifferent to the receding landscape as Pierre Laudée tilted 
up his ship’s nose and climbed a steep grade into the clouds 
for what he boasted, that afternoon, was the record flight 
from Paris to Rome. 

Bobby ‘still clutched the newspaper in his hand; un- 
necessarily, for he could recite every word. ... Late last 
night . . . Naples-Rome express . . . wreck near Ciam- 
pino,. . . open switch . . . seven Americans among the 
injured . . . Mrs. Helen Hudson, conductor of a touring 
party .. . fatally hurt . . . removed to the English Hos- 
pital on Via Nomentana, in Rome. 

He remembered the place . . . little hospital . . . Ard- 
more — good man — chief of staff . . . throat specialist. 
He knew of him. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 309 


The day dragged on. Sometimes he relaxed from his 
tension, sank back into the cushions, limp, and wondered 
how much of the quiver of him was due to the ship’s tremor. 
Then his anxiety would sweep over him, drying his throat, 
nauseating him. 

It was an interminable grind. And it seemed almost as 
long again to creep in, at a thirty-mile snail-pace, from the 
landing-field to the hospital. 

The taxi turned in at the hospital gate and slowed down 
as it followed a graveled driveway hedged with masses of 
shrubbery. It drew up under the porte-cochére. He had 
not remembered it to be such a gloomy, taciturn, forbidding 
place as it appeared today. He wondered if that was the 
way Brightwood looked to people who came, heart-sick 
with anxiety, to inquire whether their beloved still breathed. 


XX 


Wes'aithcron ARDMORE WAS IN, ADMITTED THE DESK IN 
the lobby, but it was to be doubted if he could be seen. . 
Yes — so very busy today. ... Mrs. Hudson? ... She 
was still living. ... Would he sit down? ... The desk 
was sympathetic. 

Bobby nervously scribbled a message. 

‘Take that card to Doctor Ardmore,” he commanded, 
“and make sure he gets it! ” 

In a few minutes a stocky, graying man of forty-five came 
quickly down the corridor and reached out his hand. 

“Yes — I’m Ardmore. Only today we were speaking of 
you, Doctor Merrick. This is indeed a great pleasure. 
Now — you have come about your countrywoman, Mrs. 
Hudson. ... My friend, I fear we are not to save her. 

No — nothing has been done yet. . . . Too soon — 
you will understand. ... Cerebral concussion. ‘ 
Donelli must wait a little. ... He thinks tonight it may 
be safe to try . . . but he has no hope. ... Conscious? 
Oh — fitfully; partially. We have had her quieted, you 
know. ... She is aware that she is totally blind — I am 
sure of that.” 

*“‘ Then the contusion covers the occipital lobes! ” 

“Exactly! Squarely on the back of the head! Very deep 
_ lesion! ... Then there are the fractured ribs. That’s bad 
too. Lowers the resistance. ... Donelli had decided at 
noon that it was useless to attempt the head operation, but 
now he’s going into it. . .. He does not see too many of 
these cases. ... I could wish — But — my God, man! 
You're here! You shall doit! Donelli will be very grateful! ” 


gio 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 311 


Bobby’s heart was pounding. 

** You really think he might want me to? ” 

“Want you? He’ll say you’re a godsend! Donelli’s an 
excellent surgeon, but he does not specialize. You'll win 


his everlasting appreciation! ... Come—vwe will go 
to your patient. .~-*. I shall be responsible for Donelli’s 
full approval. ... Come — please.” 


*¢ Just a moment, Doctor Ardmore,” said Bobby, tugging 
loose from the arm that was propelling him down the cor- 
ridor. ‘‘ I have something to say to you before I see Mrs. 
Hudson. Let us go some place where we may talk privately.” 

Ardmore led the way into a small parlor. 

“IT think you ought to know,” said Bobby, “that this 
young woman’s life is more to me than of professional con- 
cern; more than might be implied by the fact that we are 
fellow countrymen and acquaintances. ... I have had 
hopes of making her my wife.” 

** My word! — What a situation! ” 

** Yes, isn’t it? Now, I'll tell you the rest of it. We have 
had a very serious misunderstanding. That is to say — she 
is misunderstanding me. That being the case — perhaps it 
would be much better, in the event she has an interval of 
consciousness, that she be left unaware that I am her 
surgeon.” 

* But,” objected Ardmore, “‘ might not that fact put a 
little more resistance into her? ”’ 

** Not the kind we want.” 

** Well — you ought to know. ... I shall tell the nurse 
and endeavor to keep your identity secret.” 


312 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


Oe tS 


It was the droop of her mouth that brought the scalding 
tears to Bobby’s eyes. For a moment he thought he couldn’t 
bear it. 

Ardmore, observing how deeply he was affected, felt some 
concern. This was not an affair into which an operating 
surgeon dared to fetch his emotions. He gripped the visi- 
tor’s shoulder with five vise-like fingers and muttered, 
“Steady! You’re her doctor; not her lover! ” 

He motioned the nurse to follow him out into the hall 
and left Bobby alone with his patient. She roused slightly, 
drew a short, painfully interrupted sigh that made her 
wince; the lips tightened momentarily, and relaxed again 
into the pensive droop. 

Bobby took the hand that lay on the white counterpane 
and held it in both of his. There was the very faintest 
imaginable pressure in her fingers. Dear little chap! She 
was at least vaguely aware of a friendly handclasp, no 
matter where it came from. That was that much — any- 
how! 

The door opened and Ardmore returned with the nurse 
whose eyes sparkled. She shared an important secret. 

** Perhaps you would like to make an examination, doc- 
tor,’ said Ardmore. 

Bobby nodded. The nurse led him to a wash room and 
found him a smock and gloves. 

The patient was placed in position and the temporary 
bandages were removed. Bobby stood stunned at the sight. 
It was, as Ardmore had said, very, very deep. He gave a 
quick, almost articulate intake of breath as he touched it. 

Again the English doctor’s strong fingers gathered up 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 313 


a large handful of his young colleague’s shoulder and growled, 
““Remember! She’s your patient! ” 

*“ There’s nothing to be gained by waiting,” said Bobby. 
“Send for Doctor Donelli, please. We will go into this as 
soon as he arrives.” 

> o 


It was six o’clock when Helen was laid upon the operating 
table, and seven-thirty when she was transferred again to 
the wheeled bed on which she had come. 

During that hour and a half, Bobby Merrick, by a supreme 
effort of his will, was a brain surgeon, and Helen Hudson 
was a patient — a case —a precariously difficult occipital 
contusion. 

When they had wheeled her in, he feared for a moment 
he would be unable to achieve that professional attitude. 
He hesitated, before making his first incision, as he might 
have hesitated had the scalpel been aimed at his own heart. 
Once that deft stroke had been accomplished, he was all 
surgeon. 

Donelli stood by, attentively, gently sponging away the 
blood; marveling at the uncanny accuracy with which the 
veins were clipped with forceps almost before they had a 
chance to signal their location; regarding with envious ad- 
miration the swiftness and sureness of those slim, strong, 
experienced fingers. 

Twice Merrick had glanced up anxiously into the eyes of 
the anesthetist — it was no small matter to be conducting 
ether into those pummeled lungs — but, apparently satis- 
fied with what he read there, applied himself with renewed 
concentration to his task. 

It was a terrific strain, and the little group in the operating 


314 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


room was strangely silent. By common consent it was under- 
stood that a moving drama was being enacted here —a 
tragedy, perhaps. Any breath might be her last. That 
would depend upon the skill of the surgeon. Life and death 
here were to be determined by the promptness and accuracy 
of decisions in the removal of the clots. Too deep meant 
death; not deep enough meant blindness for life! 

When the operation was all but finished, Donelli inquired, 
with an entreating look and a hand outstretched for the 
needle, if he might not do the scalp stitches; but Merrick 
shook his head. 

The little procession crowded through the door. Bobby 
walked shakily into the adjacent dressing room; sat down 
on a white enameled stool, his shoulders slumped; and con- 
templated his hands. ... Her blood! ... Donelli and 
1 nurse helped him off with his rubber gloves and out of his 
smock. The impulsive Italian himself insisted on mopping 
his guest’s face with a cold towel, eager to show his sympathy. 
It had been the most stirring event of his experience in a 
vocation singularly exposed to dramatic situations. 

They tried, a little later, to persuade Merrick to eat some- 
thing, but his dinner consisted of a stiff drink of brandy 
which he gulped greedily as a toper. It was useless to argue 
with him. He was determined to go at once to his patient’s 
bedside and wait results. 

“ But — there’s nothing you can do,” expostulated Ard- 
more. “It will be hours before you can determine any- 
thing more than you know now, unless — of course . . .” 

““ Exactly! ”? muttered Merrick. “It’s the unless that 
concerns me! ... That—and the threat of a quick 
pneumonia.” 

Donelli and Ardmore went to dinner. As they parted at 


b 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 315 


the hospital gate, the Italian said, “ It’s too much to hope 
for. Our young friend will be deeply grieved. But — it 
was a masterful piece of work! ” 


Ora 


Herroom wasinsemi-darkness, but Merrick’s eyes, once they 
were accustomed to the gloom, caressed the loveliness of her 
face. He had not bandaged her eyes. They were closed; 
and the long black lashes — incredibly long lashes — made 
heavy shadows on her darkly flushed cheeks. Her breathing 
was regular, quiet — almost too quiet, at times, and he 
would rise from his chair by the window and move anxiously 
toward the bed, his nerves keyed to the breaking point. 

Mostly he sat resting his elbows on his knees with his chin 
in his hands, staring at her face, occasionally rousing when 
a longer breath, exhaled shudderingly, would bring him to 
her side, his stethoscope intent. 

About midnight, he took a turn up and down in the cor- 
ridor, and upon reéntering the room, whispered into Julie 
Craig’s ear: 

“Ts her clothing in that closet? ” 

“Yes, doctor. ... Can I help you? ” 

He shook his head, stepped to the wardrobe, and after 
some search brought out a soiled and torn blue gown, 
fumbled at the neck of it, and, having found what he sought, 
restored the garment to the closet and closed the door. 

Julie Craig watched him interestedly as he sat toying 
with the bit of jewelry he had abstracted from his patient’s 
clothing. Doubtless it was one of his gifts to her. There 
was some delicious secret connected with it. She wished 
she knew. 


316 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


After a while, he rose, and, bending over her, whispered: 
“You may go out and take a bit of exercise. I shall call 
you if you are needed.” 


Se ke 


Dawn was breaking. The little clock ticked energetically 
on the bureau. Birds twittered sleepily, outside the window. 
Bells tolled matins. 

There was a weary sigh from the bed. Julie Craig bent 
over it, solicitously. 

And then, in that dear voice, curiously like a muted ’cello, 
between hysterical little sobs, Bobby Merrick’s patient 
murmured: 


* Oh — Blessed God — J can see! ”? 


XXI 


a ULIE CRAIG WAS A ROMANTIC LITTLE THING, AND THE 
drama in which she had been assigned a réle was quite to 
her liking. It was not a fat part as to voluminosity of lines, 
but it kept her almost continuously on the stage in the 
thick of action. 

Very thrilling it was to feel herself the chief custodian of 
so valuable a secret.. She had resolved to safeguard it 
against any hazard until the impressive moment arrived for 
its sensational release. 

As for Doctor Ardmore’s attitude toward the matter, he 
was so hilarious, that morning, to learn of the complete suc- 
cess of young Merrick’s operation that it mattered little to 
him when or how his attractive patient should discover the 
identity of her benefactor. Ardmore was British. It oc- 
curred to him that whatever misunderstandings might have 
estranged these two interesting young Americans, the ma- 
chinery of reconciliation was now in good running order. 
If they couldn’t execute some kind of a treaty in the face of 
this theatrical life-saving event, they deserved to go their 
separate ways without expectation of sympathy. 

Donelli, by race and temperament cordial toward the 
grand opera aspects of the situation, rather hoped the fair 
patient’s identification of Merrick might not be brought 
about until she was at least sufficiently clear of mind to get 
a real emotional wallop out of the occasion, and sincerely 
hoped he might find some good reason-to be present when 
it happened. 

Julie was for postponing the great moment as long as 
possible. To her active imagination it was a situation to be 

317 


318 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


nibbled at appreciatively; toyed with—cat and mouse 
fashion; savored, rolled about on the tongue. She could 
not conceive anything more bitterly disappointing than a 
prosaic anticlimax, now that the dramatic materials were 
all in hand for a perfectly whopping curtain! It made her 
shudder to contemplate the possibility of his popping into 
the room while his idol was in the throes of nausea, as she 
was almost sure to be, a dozen times before the day was out. 
The whole affair, Julie decided, should be insured against 
a commonplace outcome, and dedicated herself to that 
movement with almost as much concern as if she were one 
of the principals. 

Pursuant to that determination she had left word at the 
office that she wished to communicate with Doctor Merrick 
as soon as he returned from breakfast and the brief nap he 
had promised himself. When the message came up that 
the young American surgeon was in the building, Julie 
went to the stairs to meet him. He greeted her warmly, 
told her she had been very faithful, suggested she would be 
better off for a few hours’ sleep. He would see to it that she 
was relieved at once. 

She shook her head. 

“I am not sleepy. I shall wait until this afternoon. 
Doctor Ardmore told me my patient was not to know who 
was treating her. So—TI have restored the bandage to her 
eyes. I told her they should not encounter the strong light 
for several hours. I hope I haven’t done wrong, sir.” 

* You are very resourceful,” said Bobby, endeavoring to 
keep a straight face. ‘‘ Is there, by any chance, something 
else I ought to know before looking in? ” 

She colored with conscious pride. 

“Yes, sir. If you don’t mind, I have told her that since 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 319 


she does not speak Italian fluently, whatever conversation 
she may have with you is to be interpreted by me. 

And Doctor Donelli can be asked in, this morning, while 
you make the examination. Is that agreeable? ” 

“Miss Craig,” said Bobby solemnly, “‘ you’re wasting 
your talents here. You should belong to the diplomatic 
corps.” 

“I hope you’re not making fun, sir. ... Doctor Ard- 
more said she wasn’t to know — and I saw no other way of 
keeping it from her.” 

** You have done very nicely,” commended Bobby. “ Til 
wash up and change my coat.” 


PIS, 


Helen had been creeping out of her etherized torpor, at 
closer intervals of full consciousness, since seven; had even 
smiled gratefully under Julie’s little tendernesses. 

“So glad!’ she had murmured when Julie assured her 
pie was going to be’well and sound as ever. 

d — I can see!” 

She raised a white hand and tugged weakly at ‘ee edge 
of the bandage over her eyes. Julie hastened to restore it. 

“Tomorrow, perhaps,” she promised. ‘‘ He wants them 
protected today.” 

“ Very well,’ with an obedient sigh, ‘‘ he ought to know, 
I suppose.” 

Julie was a tense little figure when Doctor Merrick came 
in, arrayed in his borrowed surgical gown, accompanied by 
the volatile Donelli who greeted her with a bombardment 
of praise for having contributed so much to this happy 
eventuality. She returned a volley warning him against an 


320 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


accidental disclosure of their secret. Donelli nodded vigor- 
ously and chuckled. 5 

Doctor Merrick stepped at once to the bedside table, 
consulted the chart, and proceeded to verify the latest 
pulse-count. 

** Please tell the doctor,” said Helen slowly, ‘‘ that the 
bandage around my chest is so very tight. Could he make 
it more comfortable? ” 

Julie dutifully relayed the request in a swift Italian sen- 
tence composed of one word of two hundred syllables — 
mostly vowels. 

Seeing that the surgical bandage around her chest had 
been Donelli’s affair, it was only a natural courtesy for 
Doctor Merrick to permit his colleague to decide whether 
or not he wished it changed. Stepping back, he silently 
signed to Doctor Donelli that this matter was up to him. 
But Donelli vehemently protested, with outspread fingers, 
that he was only too eager to discover his guest’s technique. 

The opportunity for a debate not being favorable, Bobby 
turned down the sheet, examined the broad bandage, un- 
pinned it, unfolded it down to the creamy-white satin skin, 
carefully inspected the discolored field of the fractures, and 
expertly replaced the bandage. 

“* Oh — that is ever so much better,” sighed his patient, 
gratefully. 

Julie shook loose a cascade of musical Italian, and the 
doctor grunted his receipt of it. 

“He has very gentle hands,” murmured Helen sleepily. 

*¢ Shall I tell him that, madame?” asked Julie, her eyes 
brightly searching his face. 


“No. ... Tell him I am thankful he has made me see 
again.” 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 321 


Impulsively Bobby entertained a foolhardy notion. In a 
clumsy Italian phrase, remembered from boyhood, he mum- 
bled something about the pleasure being all his own — and, 
dismayed by his own audacity, walked to the window to 
write a prescription. 

Julie’s eyes were intent upon her patient’s half-covered 
face. She was about to interpret the doctor’s remark when 
she noted that the full lips parted; then, that the lower lip 
was gently pinioned between an even row of white teeth, 
while the dimples deepened ever so little and a slow flush 
crept across her checks. 

With agitated fingers, Julie refastened the smock at the 
throat, her sentimental little heart beating wildly. 

She knows! — thought Julie. ... Bending over her, she 
said gently: 

“But perhaps you understood what the doctor was just 
saying. Is it not so?” 

There was no reply. She had drowsed off again. But the 
smile lingered on her lips, and the flush lingered on her 
cheeks. 

As they went out, Doctor Merrick beckoned Julie to the 
door and said, in an undertone: 

“You might remove that bandage from her eyes while 
she sleeps. It will be more comfortable.” 


Se See 


Two hours later she roused again. Having soberly re- 
garded Julie for some minutes, she fumbled at the neck of 
her smock and drew out the little silver cross. Holding it 
tightly in both hands and pressing it to her heart, she 
inquired: 


322 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


“* How did you know I wanted it? ” 

“T did not know, madame; or you should have had it 
from the first.” 

There was a long pause. 

** When did you put it on me? I just now discovered it.” 

**T did not put it on you, madame.” 

There was another long silence. 

Observing that her patient was dabbing clumsily at her 
eyes with the corner of the sheet, Julie hastened to restore 
her handkerchief; then turned and walked thoughtfully to 
the window. 

** Did you see him do it? ” 

Julie did not turn from the window as she replied, un- 
steadily: 

** No, madame. He invited me to leave the room.” 

*“* The — poor — dear! ” 


Cr iS 


At nine that evening Marion Dawson arrived and Bobby 
met her at the station. 

Immediately upon reading the news of the accident, she 
had been. fortunate in making connections with the best 
westbound train of the day. Her frantic telegram of inquiry, 
addressed to the hospital while en route, had been handed 
to Merrick who had wired reassuringly to her train. She had 
received the message at ten. It did not greatly surprise her 
to have a telegram from him, knowing that he would have 
been likely to see the account of the disaster while in Paris. 

“Oh, Bobby — how wonderful!” she exclaimed tear- 
fully, when he told her that everything was favorable to a 
prompt recovery. ‘‘ Can I see her?” 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 323 


“Better not tonight. She will be brighter in the 
morning.” 

** And I suppose you two blessed things have found that 
you’re necessary to each other, haven’t you? ” 

‘“* Well — not yet,” he said, hesitatingly. ‘‘ You see, I 
have her at a rather awkward disadvantage. I performed 
the operation, myself. I don’t wish to make capital of any 
obligation she might feel toward me. In fact — she doesn’t 
know I’m here, at all.” 

Marion was pink with indignation. The taxi-driver 
stood by the open door of the cab waiting for them to step 
in; but she ignored the gesture and blazed at her compatriot 
angrily. 

“Bobby Merrick—I think that’s simply disgraceful! 
You’ve always kept the dear soul in the dark and made her 
feel irresponsible. And here you are again with some more 
of your wretched secrets! Well — we'll see if you’re going 
to use her that way, this time! When I see her in the morn- 
ing, I mean to tell her! You don’t need to think ’m a 
party to any more of these mysteries! ”” 

He rather suspected that she meant it. On the short ride 
over to the Quirinal where he had reserved a room for her, 
he told her as much as he could explain of the operation, 
attempting to divert her attention from her annoyance over 
his attitude toward Helen. 

“T am leaving in the morning for Vienna,” he said, after 
making sure she was receiving proper attention at the hotel 
desk. ‘“‘ Doctor Donelli can do the dressings as well as I. 
There is no danger now, and no reason for my staying on; 
especially since you seem bent on informing her.” 

“It’s the only decent thing to do,” retorted Marion 
obdurately. ‘‘ She has a right to know. ... Well — give 


324 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


my love to Jack and tell him Ill be back when Helen doesn’t | 
need me any more. I wonder if she’ll forgive me! ” 
““T hope so, my dear; but I wouldn’t bet much on it. 
Good-bye! ” 
> o> 


Later in the evening he had a consultation with Donelli 
and felt confident he was leaving his patient in competent 
hands. He stepped into Helen’s room, found her sleeping, 
took her hand and held it for a moment, and walked out 
with only a nod for the nurse who had relieved Julie. At 
the desk he scribbled a note to her, thanking her for “ ex- 
ceptional faithfulness and originality,” and enclosed a sub- 
stantial tender of gratitude (part of which she used to 
defray a three months’ vacation in Switzerland). 

Reconciliation was effected promptly and silently, the 
next morning, when Marion called. They kissed each other 
and wept a little. Julie excused herself and left them alone 
together. 

** Helen, dear,’ whispered Marion, the moment the door 
had closed, “‘ you could never guess who did your opera- 
tion? ” 

** Oh yes, I could,”’ drawled Helen, smiling. 

“Good! He thought he had such a secret! When did 
you find out? ” 

She laughed — with a little wince of pain. 

** He talked some Italian for me, yesterday.” 

** And you recognized his voice? ” 

** Instantly.” 

** He doesn’t know it; I am confident.” 

“Well, he probably will before the day is over.” 

Before Marion had a chance to reply, Doctor Donelli 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 325 


came bustling in, trailed by Julie, and smilingly approached 
the bedside. 
Helen looked up inquiringly. 
* TIsn’t Doctor Merrick coming, this morning, Miss Craig? ” 
Julie shook her head. 
** He left for Vienna at seven, dear,” said Marion. ‘I 
told him I intended to tell you he was here, so — off he goes! ” 
** How like him! ” said Helen, smiling. 


XXII 


TT sects MERRICK’S UNUSUAL CAPACITY FOR PIN-POINT 
concentration upon problems of scientific research was not 
quite up to par during his collaboration with Doctor Arn- 
stadt. The Viennese surgeon seemed every way satisfied, 
and rejoiced in his close association with his young American 
colleague, but Bobby was too restless and distracted to make 
the most of his opportunity. 

Jack Dawson had been quick to understand his friend’s 
mood. 

“ Bobby,” he advised, one early August night, as they 
were finishing their dinner in the low-ceilinged grill room at 
Hangel’s, ‘‘ I don’t want to meddle, but I believe you really 
ought to run over to the Imperial City and do your stuff. 
You’re getting to be damned poor company, and I think 
you have something weighty on your conscience.” 

Bobby nodded soberly. 

“You’re right! ... Dll go— tomorrow! ” 


Sh Nee ; ; 


Marion had stayed on in Rome. Jack’s daily letter from 
her constituted the log of Helen’s rather tedious trip through 
convalescence. 

It was a great day in Vienna — demanding a bit of cele- 
bration that night — when the news came that she had sat 
up for a half hour. 

Now she had been wheeled out into the shady patio. 

Now she had taken a short walk. ... Now they were 


both at the Quirinal, and every afternoon Helen was down 
326 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 327 


in the garden, in the hotel court. . . ._ Now she was taking 
drives in the evening. ... You could hardly find the 
scar, any more. ... Helen was so happy. 


ee So 


On the morning of the sixth of August, Jack and Doctor 
Arnstadt saw Bobby off. After the train had slipped quietly 
out of the station, Jack went to the telegraph booth and 
wired to Marion. He-did not tell her it was a secret that 
Bobby was on the way. She would not have kept it, in any 
event. She was all done with riddles. 

“Who do you think’s coming? ”’ she cried, romping into 
Helen’s room waving her telegram. 

** When does he arrive? ” 


** Tomorrow afternoon — about six! ... Isn’t it won- 
derful? ”’ 

“Tm going, dear! I don’t feel I’m quite up to it.” 

** Why — the very idea! ... Youcan’t! ... When 
you know he’s on the way? ... He'll be wretchedly dis- 
appointed! ” 


** But — I don’t know he’s coming — that is, not officially. 
He probably didn’t want me to know, or he would 
have informed me.” 

There was no talking her out of it. She was going! That 
night they paid a farewell call at the hospital. Julie Craig 
shyly inquired of Mrs. Dawson if Doctor Merrick was still 
in Europe, and was appalled to learn that he was arriving 
in Rome tomorrow. 

** But — you will have gone, madame!” exclaimed Julie, 
looking reproachfully at her patient. ... Surely this 
affair was being badly managed by somebody. 


328 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


| RSS 


All that the concierge at the Quirinal seemed to remem- 
ber at first about the whereabouts of the two young Ameri- 
can women was that they had left, that noon, for Paris. 
Upon further reflection, and in appreciation of the color of 
the bank-note which Doctor Merrick was twisting in his 
fingers, he recalled that Madame Hudson’s heavier baggage 
had been expressed directly to Le Havre. He had himself 
seen to it. Yes—she was sailing on the fle de France on 
Thursday. At all events, her trunks were. 

Bobby spent an hour, pacing up and down the flagging 
in the garden of the Quirinal, planning his next move. 
This game of hide and seek couldn’t — mustn’t go on any 
longer! He resolved to corner her and take her by force! 

He sent a long telegram to Jack Dawson, confiding the 
full particulars of the enormous audacity he had decided to 
commit. He had made his reputation with her by various 
acts of impudence. This would be the crowning deed which 
would make all his former impertinences seem bland. He 
was very nervous as he prepared for it. 

Events moved very swiftly, once he had come to his deci- 
sion. He engaged an aeroplane and flew to Paris. Between 
the racket of the triple engines and the furious pounding 
of his heart, it was a noisy trip. There was a hasty half- 
hour with his mother, in which he persuaded her to forgive 
him on the strength of a promise that he would return and 
be with her at Christmas. 

At the down town office of the French Line, he engaged 
the most luxurious suite on the fle de France. Next morn- 
ing, he flew to Havre, arriving an hour before the boat-train 
from Paris. 


MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 329 


It was a long and anxious hour. Never had he been so 
utterly stampeded by his own emotions. 

Seeing to it that his light luggage was in his quarters, and 
having strolled about through the commodious suite to 
make sure it was ready for occupancy — he had retained 
enough presence of mind to order the place filled with 
flowers — he went up to the captain’s cabin, renewed ac- 
quaintance, and asked a favor. 

Then he went down and took up his stand at the foot of 
the first-class gangway, waiting with an impatience almost 
too urgent to be borne. 

Whatever would she think? 


SH eS 


Slowly the train crept into the shed, across the way, and 
the passengers swarmed in little groups about their hand 
baggage. Presently the procession began to move strag- 
glingly toward the ship. 

Bobby saw her coming, tripping smartly along with two 
porters attentively close behind her. 

Mauve — this time. ... Snug, saucy, cloche hat — 
mauve. ... A tailored suit of mauve that sculptured 
every curve of her. 

She sighted him waiting for her. He knew she had seen 
him. Now her eyes widened and her lips parted as their 
gaze met. She advanced steadily toward him with a tread 
almost martial. 

As she neared him, he did not extend his hand, as she had 
thought he might. He held out both arms; and, to his in- 
expressible delight, she walked confidently into them, shyly 
laid her slim fingers on his coat lapels, looked up into his 
face, and smiled. 


330 MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION 


“Put madame’s baggage in Suite B,”’ said Bobby, in a 
proprietorial tone to the porters. 

“You are traveling with me!” he explained rather un- 
steadily. ‘“‘ The captain is marrying us, this afternoon! ”’ 

** Yes, dear,” she said softly. “ I know.” 

Bobby’s arms tightened about her. 

“* How did you know? ”’ he grinned, boyishly. 

** Well — let’s see. You wired it to Doctor Dawson, and 
he wired it to Marion, and she wired it tome. ... Awfully 
roundabout way to learn one was being married, wasn’t 
it?” 

** But — but — you’re for it, aren’t you?” he pleaded, 
searching her eyes. 

She smiled. 

‘“‘ Perhaps we should go aboard, Bobby. We’re blocking 
the traffic.” 


oO. 
LI 6 po ANITY SERVICE 


OMMuM 
Ni 


UNIT 


Date Due | 
; FraAcoLere 


Now 18 MAY 2. °( 


OCT ® 35? 


NOV 3 


WAR 1 95g VAN 2 TG® 


FACOLY? WARK 2 5 '6§ 


169 


‘iL TY PFACULTY, 


Wav 26 Ter 


_unp to '6d IPR 28 7 
APR 26 ‘72 


@ PRINTED |IN U.S. A, 


aa $0 7 
ec 18 7Q | 
PR a4 “TS ! 


MILLS COLLEGE LIBRARY 


BF Magnificent obsession / 
Fiction 07348m Douglas, Lloyd Casse 


LULU 


3 3086 00039 2183 


a ry 4 : 
LL a i 6 0 o) 


D7548m 


aS eee 
pigs enlancen 


lest 


Speers 


is 


acces 


eae 


oo ee 


Seat lage sere Ee ame Bat 
ai eas cra ht E cae 


